How to put variable on nested loop?I want to put make a box of variable. I don't know where I make a mistake?
I want my output like this :
Here's a modified version of your code (the comments in the code point out the changes I've made):
How to compile with an executable (exe) in Linux?I'm relatively new with Linux. I'm developing a game in windows and I compile the project with various .exe files (it's a Toshiba TCH900 compiler, made around the year 2000).
I copied the project to my laptop with ubuntu and I would like know if a method exists to use these .exe files to compile the project in linux.
Thanksif its a simple C program you can use
gcc source.c -o myexeHow to store value referenced with pointers in variables?Actually I have a string looking like this : "1,22,333,,55555,666666,7777777"
From this string I have created two array :
One with the size of each parameter. For the given exemple it looks like this : [1;2;3;0;5;6;7]
The second with the pointer that reference the beginning of each parameter.
The parameters can change in length and in type but not in order.
So i want to store them with typecasting for those concerned
I have tested to sscanf each index of the pointer array but it seems not working
you are trying to store the result in a string literal. That won't work (modifying a string literal in undefined behavior).
Also consider sprintf instead of nested strcatHow to read elliptic curve public key from DER file with OpenSSL in CWhat is the correct OpenSSL C API function to read an elliptic curve public key in DER format that has already been read into a byte array?
The key was generated via the following command line arguments:
openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out private.der -outform der
openssl ec -in private.der -pubout -out public.der -outform der You can use d2i_PUBKEY for this purpose. See the man page here:
The function scanf will try to read a decimal integer from stdin. It uses the definition of a decimal integer from strtol:
The valid integer value consists of the following parts
In other words, scanf will try to interpret a sequence of characters on stdin as a decimal integer. It will not do a character to integer conversion based on the ASCII table.
The solution to your problem lies in checking the return value of scanf, which is:
Number of receiving arguments successfully assigned (which may be zero in case a matching failure occurred before the first receiving argument was assigned), or EOF if input failure occurs before the first receiving argument was assigned.
So, check if scanf did not return 1. In this case, it has not read a decimal integer and num has not been assigned a value and should not be used.
In the given program, if num has never been assigned a value, its value is indeterminate. This could be a value <40, explaining the infinite loop as scanf repeatedly tries to read a non-integer from stdin, fails and leaves the non-integer on stdin as is. If num has been assigned a value before, it will still hold that value after a failed scanf call.Is it necessary to check definition of a macro in the C preprocessor?I am reading some C code and found preprocessors like this appear pretty frequently:
These are not equivalent, as #if ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT tests for any non-zero value, whereas #if defined(ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT) && (ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT==1) specifically tests for 1.
It is the case that the latter could be shortened to #if (ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT==1).That specific code could be rewritten as #if ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT==1. It can not be rewritten as #if ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT like you claim, since that would return 1 no matter the value, as long as ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT is defined (and not zero).
In general, programmers tend to avoid #if checks infavour of ifdef/#if defined since the former silently evaluates to 0 in case the operator isn't defined. For example:
This makes an incorrect conclusion if neither identifier is defined.In my view, no matter whether ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT is 1, 0, or undefined, #if ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT is always equivalent to #if defined(ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT) && (ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT==1).
This is a fact, not merely a view, as we can demonstrate by evaluating all the possibilities:
I am wondering that, compared to #if ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT, does it have any advantages, or just a coding style?
In the absence of any studies of the rate at which humans make mistakes with one or the other, whether one has advantages over the other is largely a matter of opinion and conjecture. Generally, shorter or simpler code is favored if it is not unnecessarily obtuse. Unless there is some reason to treat definitions other than undefined, 0, and 1 as false, the former performs the desired function and is simpler and shorter.
If there is some reason to treat other definitions as false, then #if ZERO_MIN_SUPPORT == 1 performs that and is simpler and shorter than the original code.Achieving the effect of 'volatile' without the added MOV* instructions?I have a piece of code that must run under all circumstances, as it modifies things outside of its own scope. Let's define that piece of code as:
This looks like an optimal target for the optimizer in compilers, and that is what I have observed with my code as well: map_outside_of_this_scope ends up empty. Unfortunately the map_outside_of_this_scope is critical to operation and must contain data, otherwise the application crashes. The only way to fix this is by marking v as volatile, however that makes the application significantly slower than an equivalent Assembly based function.
Is there a way to achieve the effect of volatile, without the MOV instructions of volatile?volatile is directly relevant to optimizers because reads and writes of volatile variables are observable behavior. That means the reads and writes cannot be removed.
Similarly, optimizers cannot remove writes of variables that are observable by other means - whether you write the variable to std::cout, file or socket. And the burden of proof is on the compiler - the write can only be eliminated if the write is provably dead.
In the example above, for instance, mymap.begin()->first is written to std::cout. That is observable behavior, so even in absence of volatile the behavior must be kept. But the exact details do not matter. An optimizer may spot that only the ->first member is observed in this particular example. Hence, v (the ->second value) is not observed, and can legally be optimized out.
But if you copy mymap.begin()->second to a volatile float sink, then that write to sink is observable behavior, and the compiler must make sure the right value is written. That pretty much means that your v calculation inside the loop needs to be preserved, even though v itself is not volatile.
The compiler could do loop unrolls that affect how v is read and written, because the individual v updates are no longer observable. Only the value that's eventually written to volatile float sink counts.Inasmuch as you assert in comments that you are most interested in a narrow answer to the question
Is there a way to achieve the effect of volatile, without the MOV instructions of volatile?
the only thing we can say is that C and C++ do not specify the involvement of MOV or any other specific assembly instructions anywhere, for any purpose.  If you observe such instructions in compiled binaries then those reflect implementation decisions by your compiler's developers.  What's more, where you see them, the MOVs are most likely important to implementing those semantics.
Additionally, neither C nor C++ specifies any alternative feature that duplicates the rather specific semantics of volatile access (why would they?).  You might be able to use inline assembly to achieve custom, different effects that serve your purpose, however.
With respect to the more general problem that inspired the above question, all we can really say is that the multiple compilers that perform the unwanted optimization are likely justified in doing so, for reasons that are not clear from the code presented.  With that in mind, I recommend that you broaden your problem-solving focus to search for why the compilers think they can perform the optimization when volatile is not involved. To that end, construct a MRE -- not for us, but because the exercise of MRE construction is a powerful debugging technique in its own right.Why does the last array element print the array size?#include <stdio.h>
Why does it print the 8 at the end? The 8th element printed -1 the first time but after I called my function it prints the array size?Storing into the non-existing position[8] as you do is undefined behaviour. When you have undefined behaviour, anything can happen. Whatever happens is correct as far as the C language is concerned, whether you like it or not.
"Why?" is irrelevant. It's your fault, your fault alone, you deal with it. Fix your code.I am not receiving correctly my signals with SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2I've got a problem while using SIGUSR1 and SIGUSR2 signals. Actually I have a client program that send a string *str in binary (eg: 1100111 for g letter) to a server program, by using SIGUSR1 signal for the '1' and SIGUSR2 for the '2'. The server receive them like that :
But the problem is that the output for the 'g' character for exemple is 01 so it seems that the reception is not correct. What should I do to print 1100111 from my server ?
Thank you very much in advance :)Signals aren't queued
Typically, standard signals aren't, but real-time signals are, so those are an alternative. But there are two other problems with using two (or more) signals for your purpose:
A signal can interrupt the handling of another signal; this can be solved by blocking both (or more) during the signal handling.
Even though real-time signals are queued (which achieves that as many signals are received as were sent), this does not achieve that different signals are delivered to the handler in the order in which they were sent; that problem remains.
So, to get rid of the second problem, we must use only one signal. (This also makes the first problem disappear, because the one signal is automatically blocked during its handling.) Of course this means we need another means of passing the information you want to send. Fortunately there is sigqueue() which sends a value along with the signal. In order to access this value in the signal handler, we must install that with sigaction() rather than with signal(). This way, the relevant parts of your server program become
This attempts to compile and link test.c into an executable with the unusual name of test.o.  That obviously fails because test.c is not a complete program by itself.
To just compile and assemble a source file into an object file, you need to use the -c option:
And the same for the other compilation rules of your makefile.
There is a slight inconsistency in gcc's behavior here: it looks at the extension of the input files to help it decide what to do (.c files get compiled as C, .cpp files are compiled as C++, .s files are only assembled, etc) but it doesn't look at the extension of the output file.  You have to use a separate option.My answer is intended to follow on Nate's. Mine's a bit too complicated to put into a comment.
The default file production rules should work just fine for your Makefile unless on your platform the defaults are different. On mine, this is all I need to make the executable:
You didn't include file.c but the code you posted doesn't depend upon file.c.
It's highly recommended to use pre-defined rules whenever possible and to define new rules where they can be applied more than once. The only time you truly need specific rules is when multiple rules cannot be refactored to a smaller set of rules.
PS I'd never want to create an executable named for something that already exists.Create a header  file for the stack.c file and include it in your main file instead of stack.c
Understanding integer sum in C I'm trying to formally understand how additive operators work from the Standard's formal standpoint. There are 2 bullets:
4 If both operands have arithmetic type, the usual arithmetic
conversions are performed on them.
5 The result of the binary 
operator is the sum of the operands.
Considering the following piece of code
if the new type is unsigned, the value is converted by repeatedly
adding or subtracting one more than the maximum value that can be
represented in the new type until the value is in the range of the new
The new type here is unsigned int, but the problem is what is the old type then? It cannot be unsigned int since the resulting value cannot be represented due to the width of unsigned int is too small.The old types are unsigned int and int, UINT_MAX and 1 respectively.
The wording quoted describes the mathematical result, and math is not restricted to C types.It cannot be unsigned int since the resulting value cannot be represented due to the width of unsigned int is too small.
That statement is not correct.
(Quotes below are from the draft standard N1570.)
The code is adding an unsigned int and a signed int.
Section 6.3.1.8 Usual arithmetic conversions describes what happens. The relevant part is:
Otherwise, if the operand that has unsigned integer type has rank greater or
equal to the rank of the type of the other operand, then the operand with
signed integer type is converted to the type of the operand with unsigned
he rank of any unsigned integer type shall equal the rank of the corresponding
So these two sections tell that in case of unsigned-int + signed-int the signed int will be converted to unsigned int. So in your specific example "the old type" is indeed unsigned int.
With respect to the result of the operation Section 6.2.5 Types tells us:
A computation involving unsigned operands can never overflow,
because a result that cannot be represented by the resulting unsigned integer type is
reduced modulo the number that is one greater than the largest value that can be
In other words, the result for your code is zero with type unsigned int.
So the relevant conversion is in 6.3.1.3 Signed and unsigned integers
When a value with integer type is converted to another integer type other than _Bool, if
the value can be represented by the new type, it is unchanged.Using sizeof() for integer array?// Buffer size
To get the size of the buffer in bytes, needed for memset, should sizeof be called on the int (1st way) or on the array (2nd way)? Does it matter?You should use the second variant.
It is more robust to changes of array size or type:
There is no need to use parenthesizes in sizeof if an operand is an expression. sizeof buf suffices.I would use the first. Because if you change the allocation from
then the second one (sizeof buf)doesn't give the array size.
To avoid dependencies (buf knows its contents' type, even as pointer) and the parens:
can be misleading, since it is the number of elements, not the sizeof-array-size. LEN(GTH) is an alternative.How do i fix error at f letter and so on at rot13 c programi'm new at programming. i'm currently making a rot13 program in c, i tried using "for","if" and it works untill letter f it shows question mark. if i were to write letters from a-z the encrypted results is like : nopqrstuvwxyzabcde???????? . i tried to change the addition/substraction values, the variable, the int. it didn't came out well.
Your code is almost okay. But there is a catch in ASCII. As we know Ascii contains both ASCII (0-127) characters and extended ASCII (128-255) characters. Ascii uses 7 bit for representation whereas extended ASCII uses 8 bit. So, when the value of ch + 13 exceeds 127 and you are subtracting 26 from it, it's basically producing a negative decimal number.
You can check by print like this printf("%d", ch);.
And there is no ascii character associated with negative decimal numbers. That's why it's producing garbage values. You should check before assigning ch = ch + 13.
Use an usigned type or an int for the calculation. Why is the sizeof union not 8 bytes but 4 bytes even if I am using pointer in my union?union one
Why is the sizeof union not 8 bytes but 4 bytes even if I am using pointer in my union?
I am using a 64 bit machine.Its because you have compiled it as 32-bit executable.how to set column to straight down like this?I tried to do a numeric puzzle and I want a column to set of like this
How can I fixed this. It's seems to work only with 10-15.From documentation on *printf:
Precision specifies the minimum number of digits to appear. The default precision is 1. If both the converted value and the precision are ​0​ the conversion results in no characters.
The specifier to use is either "%-2.0d" or %2.0d, depending on if you want the number left- or right-justified, respectively.
A note about the precision specifier:
If neither a number nor * is used, the precision is taken as zero.
This means the form of "%-2.d" would also work.What is the execution process for Python?I know that Python is an interpreted language but I want to know the whole execution process. Like how a .py file is executed.
For example, a .c file is compiled into a .asm file then the assembler translates it into a '.o' file and finally linker links the object files to form a .exec file.
What's the process for python?After running the script you created (.py), python compiles the bytecode (.pyc) (not a set of instructions for the processor). This bytecode is a set of instructions for PVM (Python Virtual Machine). PVM executes this bytecode.
If the .py file has changed, the system will compile the .pyc again.The Python interpreter processed the script in a sequential manner.
Then the code is compiled into a form of instruction set called the bytecode.
Bytecode is a low-level language. It is an intermediate, machine-independent code which optimizes the process of code execution. So, the interpreter ignores the compilation step when executing the code for the next time.
After these the interpreter transfers the code for execution.
The Python Virtual Machine (PVM) is the ultimate step of the Python interpreter process. It is a part of the Python environment installed in your system. The PVM loads the bytecode in the Python runtime and reads each operation and executes them as indicated. It is the component which actually runs your scriptHow to sort Hexadecimal Numbers (like 10 1 A B) in C?I want to implement a sorting algorithm in C for sorting hexadecimal numbers like:
The problem that I am facing here is I didn;t understand how A & B is less than 10 as A = 10 and B = 11 in hexadecimal numbers. Im sorry if I am mistaken.
Thank you!As mentioned in the previous comments, 10 is 0x10, so this sorting seems to be no problem: 0x1 < 0xA < 0xB < 0x10In any base a number with two digits is always greater than a number with one digit.
In hexadecimal notation we have 6 more digits available than in decimal, but they still count as one "digit":
When you get a number in hexadecimal notation, it might be that its digits happen to use none of the above extra digits, but just the well-known 0..9 digits. This can be confusing, as we still must treat them as hexadecimal. In particular, a digit in a multi-digit hexadecimal representation must be multiplied with a power of 16 (instead of 10) to be correctly interpreted. So when you get 10 as hexadecimal number, it has a value of one (1) time sixteen plus zero (0), so the hexadecimal number 10 has a (decimal) value of 16.
The hexadecimal numbers you gave should therefore be ordered as 1 < A < B < 10.
As a more elaborate example, the hexadecimal representation 1D6A can be converted to decimal like this:
then I get errors like error: unknown type name ‘foo_t’. I could make bar a void* and cast later, but that seems like the wrong way to go.
Is there a proper way to resolve this chicken and egg problem?Something like this
So your type is foo, which is the same as struct foo_tResuming stopped process doesn't resume its childrenI wrote a mock mini-shell program which could accept user commands just as a shell would. I am trying to replicate the functionality of stopping/resuming a process launched from within my mini-shell.
I was able to intercept and handle the SIGTSTP signal to stop a long-running process (w/o stopping my mini-shell) which simply echoes "Hi" every X seconds.
I was also able to resume the long-running process using kill(pid, SIGCONT); (in this case kill(2903651, SIGCONT) will be executed). Problem is, the sleep child process still remains in a stopped state and the "Hi" messages doesn't resume printing. Other processes which doesn't have a child process works just fine.
My question is, are there any ways to make the process of the given pid resume entirely, including its children?Assuming that the parent didn't change the process group of the children (and grandchildren), you should be able to use killpg() to signal the entire process group. By default, the process group will have the same value as the parent PID and will include all of PID's children.
For testing purposes, inside a shell, you can accomplish the same thing by specifying the parent PID as the process group, as a negative, e.g.
kill -CONT -2903651Passing strings between Fortran and CFrist off I'm new to combining C (and cpp) with Fortran. And I'm new to Fortran in general. I've been looking at other examples and reading about iso c bind. But I'm confused why this doesn't work. I currently don't have a strong grasp on how pointers work in Fortran with C. I think I'm just not getting the syntax or keywords right or something.
Can someone please explain what I'm doing wrong here?
This function takes 2 int**.  It compares the integers being pointed
at, and then sets the pointers to the address of the smaller of the
two integers.  If the values are equal, both pointers should be set to
the address of the first pointer.
Either of the pointers being passed in might point to NULL instead of
a valid integer - in that case the other value is implicitly the
smallest and both pointers should be set to point to the non-null
value.  You can assume both pointers will not be NULL.
I'm not sure why and how this casting works.
The link for the code
Maybe you need to increase the filesystem size (BR2_TARGET_ROOTFS_EXT2_SIZE)Appreciate help if anyone have insight how to fix following compile error for buildroot that I have been struggling for almost a week.
I used following commands to pull buildroot repo and have tried this multiple times. I am using arm64 default config and before make enabling following flags
Appreciate any insight since I am stuck at this point. Thank you. WaitForMultipleObjects doesn't signal for stdin in WineI wanted to be signaled when stdin has something. Below code works as expected in windows 11.
In windows 11 whatever key you press signals it but in Wine it doesn't matter what key you press nothing happens.
Why Wine acts different than windows 11? Is something wrong in code?Reading lines into an array of pointers not workingI'm trying to read input from stdin into an array of pointers, by parsing it into lines(each pointer represents a line). When I try to print them, however, it only prints the first one. I cannot see what the problem is with the rest of them. (This is part of an exercise from K&R). Also, I am aware of the memory leak, but it does not pose a concern for me now.
Then it goes back to the top of the loop where c_ptr is incremented.  This means that the first character of the second and subsequent lines are never written to.  When you then attempt to print those lines, you read whatever garbage value happens to be there.  And if that value happens to be 0, you print a blank line.
Instead of a for loop, use a while loop and only increment c_ptr when you don't go to a new line.  Also, move the reassignment of c_ptr to the next line after you check the line counter, otherwise you read past the end of the lineptr array.
Does C++ pass objects by value or reference?A simple question for which I couldn't find the answer here.
What I understand is that while passing an argument to a function during call, e.g.
For simple datatypes like int, float, etc. the function is called by value.
But if myVariable is an array, only the starting address is passed (even though our function is a call by value function).
If myVariable is an object, also only the address of the object is passed rather than creating a copy and passing it.
So back to the question. Does C++ pass a object by reference or value?Arguments are passed by value, unless the function signature specifies otherwise:
in void foo(type arg), arg is passed by value regardless of whether type is a simple type, a pointer type or a class type,
In case of arrays, the value that is passed is a pointer to the first elements of the array. If you know the size of the array at compile time, you can pass an array by reference as well: void foo(type (&arg)[10]).C++ always gives you the choice: All types T (except arrays, see below) can be passed by value by making the parameter type T, and passed by reference by making the parameter type T &, reference-to-T.
When the parameter type is not explicitly annotated to be a reference (type &myVariable), it is always passed by value regardless of the specific type. For user-defined types too (that's what the copy constructor is for). Also for pointers, even though copying a pointer does not copy what's pointed at.
Arrays are a bit more complicated. Arrays cannot be passed by value, parameter types like int arr[] are really just different syntax for int *arr. It's not the act of passing to a function which produces a pointer from an array, virtually every possible operation (excluding only a few ones like sizeof) does that. One can pass a reference-to-an-array, but this explicitly annotated as reference: int (&myArray)[100] (note the ampersand).C++ makes both pass by value and pass by reference paradigms possible.
You can find two example usages below.
Arrays are special constructs, when you pass an array as parameter, a pointer to the address of the first element is passed as value with the type of element in the array. 
When you pass a pointer as parameter, you actually implement the pass by reference paradigm yourself, as in C. Because when you modify the data in the specified address, you exactly modify the object in the caller function.In C++, types declared as a class, struct, or union are considered "of class type". These are passed by value or you can say a copy using copy constructor is passed to the functions. This is pretty evident when we implement binary trees wherein you almost always have a Node * type of param in the recursive function acting on the binary tree. This is so as to facilitate modification of that node. If the node were to be passed as is (i.e not being a pointer type), the modifications to the nodes would have been to the local copy. Even in the case of vectors, while passing a copy of vectors is passed to the functions, to avoid which we use a reference &.C++ passes arguments that are no pointers (int*) or references (int&) by value. You cannot modify the var of the calling block in the called function. Arrays are pointers.Underflow error in floating point arithmetic in CI am new to C, and my task is to create a function
that can handle very large numbers and very small numbers. I am submitting my script on an online interface that checks my answers.
For very large numbers I simplify the expression to:
By just using the highest power. This was the correct answer.
The same logic does not work for smaller numbers. For small numbers (on the order of 1e-7), they are very quickly truncated to zero, even before they are squared. I suspect that this has to do with floating point precision in C. In my textbook, it says that the float type has smallest possible value of 1.17549e-38, with 6 digit precision. So although 1e-7 is much larger than 1.17e-38, it has a higher precision, and is therefore rounded to zero. This is my guess, correct me if I'm wrong.
As a solution, I am thinking that I should convert x to a long double when x < 1e-6. However when I do this, I still get the same error. Any ideas? Let me know if I can clarify. Code below:
For small inputs, you're getting truncation error when you do 1+x^2. If x=1e-7f, x*x will happily fit into a 32 bit floating point number (with a little bit of error due to the fact that 1e-7 does not have an exact floating point representation, but x*x will be so much smaller than 1 that floating point precision will not be sufficient to represent 1+x*x.
It would be more appropriate to do a Taylor expansion of sqrt(1+x^2), which to lowest order would be
avoiding the scenario where you add a very small number to 1.
As a side note, you should not use pow for integer powers. For x^2, you should just do x*x. Arbitrary integer powers are a little trickier to do efficiently; the GNU scientific library for example has a function for efficiently computing arbitrary integer powers.There are two issues here when implementing this in the naive way: Overflow or underflow in intermediate computation when computing x * x, and substractive cancellation during final subtraction of 1. The second issue is an accuracy issue.
ISO C has a standard math function hypot (x, y) that performs the computation sqrt (x * x + y * y) accurately while avoiding underflow and overflow in intermediate computation. A common approach to fix issues with subtractive cancellation is to transform the computation algebraically such that it is transformed into multiplications and / or divisions.
Combining these two fixes leads to the following implementation for float argument. It has an error of less than 3 ulps across all possible inputs according to my testing.
The problem isn't with running into the minimum value, but with the precision.
As you said yourself, float on your machine has about 7 digits of precision.  So let's take x = 1e-7, so that x^2 = 1e-14.  That's still well within the range of float, no problems there.  But now add 1.  The exact answer would be 1.00000000000001.  But if we only have 7 digits of precision, this gets rounded to 1.0000000, i.e. exactly 1.  So you end up computing sqrt(1.0)-1 which is exactly 0.
One approach would be to use the linear approximation of sqrt around x=1 that sqrt(x) ~ 1+0.5*(x-1).  That would lead to the approximation f(x) ~ 0.5*x^2.A trick that is often useful in these cases is based on  the identity
The last formula can be used as an implementation. For vwry small x sqrt(x*x+1)+1 will be close to 2 (for small enough x it will be 2) but we don;t loose precision in evaluating it.How can I fix a string that creates some random characters?The problem is that when I try to reverse a word, there are some words that prints out with unspecified and random characters. I tried to change the string size and the results change (some words make up random characters and some no)
You must add a string terminator (0 byte) after the last character.
(Lesser issue) Using strlen() in the loop condition will iterate over the string multiple times. It usually results in O(N^2) algorithms.
The specifier %19s scans up to 19 characters and add NULL terminator to fix 20-char-long array
Check if the last character of w is \n. If so, replace it with zero.
does not make a sense because neither string is passed to the function. You passed an uninitialized character array.
The function should do only one thing: reverse the passed string.
So the call of fgets should be removed from the function and placed in main.
The function fgets can append the new line character '\n' to the entered string.  You need to remove it.
Within the function reverse you forgot to append the terminating zero character '\0' to the reversed string. So this call
invokes undefined behavior.
Also the type of the returned value of the standard C function strlen is the unsigned integer type size_t. You should use this type instaed of the signed integer type int.
And this declaration of the function
also does not make a great sense because the compiler will adjust it to the following declaration
and in general the user can pass to the function a string of any length that can be greater than the value LEN.
Below there is a demonstrative program that shows how the function can be written.
If to enter string "Hello World!" then the program output will be
Why am I receiving an "Access Violation" Error on this memcpy function? When running this program in Visual Studio, I receive an "Access Violation" error when the program reaches the memcpy function. No matter what size I make this buffer, it always throws this read access violation error. I've set breakpoints at the memcpy function and as soon as I continue the execution, it throws this error:
data might not be correctly aligned for phear. See What is aligned memory allocation?
The memcpy reads out of bounds because sizeof data < sizeof(phear).
A simple solution would be to use extern phear data; instead of the char array. If you really want to use the char array then copy data in and out of it with memcpy instead of struct access.FFMPEG Api conversion from YUV420P to RGB produces strange outputI'm using the FFMPEG Api in Rust to get RGB images from video files.
While some videos work correct and I get the frames back as expected, some work not. Or at least the result is not the way I expected it to be.
And like I said earlier, sometimes it works fine and I get the expected frame back. But sometimes I get something like this:
I saved the images as .ppm files for quick visual comparison. I used this method, which basically writes the bytes to a file with a simple .ppm header:
Here you can see that on the left side there is a good image result vs. on the right side there is a bad image result.
Why is this happening. I tested everything on my side and the only thing left is ffmpeg conversion. FFMPEG seems to convert these two test files differently even though it reports YUV420P as format for both. I cannot figure out what the difference may be...
The problem is that I am not that familiar with ffmpeg yet I don't know all the quirks it has.
I hope someone can point me in the right direction. Thanks to the suggestions of @SuRGeoNix and @Jmb I played around with the linesize and width of the input.
After a bit I learned that ffmpeg requires 32bit aligned data to perform optimally. So I adjusted the scaler to scale to a 32bit aligned width and the output is fine now.
If I have understood correctly then you need to change the format string in this call of scanf
See the blank before the conversion specifier %c. It allows to skip white space characters as for example the new line character '\n' that can appear in the input buffer by pressing the Enter key.Is there a standard way of doing RPCs with rabbitmq-cIn the RabbitMQ tutorials there's a demonstration of how to do remote process calls in all but C-languages (C, C++). I'm using rabbitmq-c and I'm close to replicating what the Python tutorial is doing, after all correlation_id and reply_to are available fields in the amq_basic_properties.
It's my understanding that these are used internally for the library's communication with the broker (e.g. that how a call to create a queue goes through) but I was wondering whether I can use those directly to support my own remote process calls, i.e. have a function that "lives" in one client and make it callable by another client.
If these methods can't be used like this, is there a standard alternative or a description of how to do routed RPCs with librabbitmq-c? Is my approach of replicating the pika tutorial "sane"?You're right in your suspicion that amq_simple_rpc etc are for low-level client-broker communication. They are indeed unsuitable for (broker-mediated) client-to-client communication.
My opinion is that your approach following the pika tutorial is sensible. I'm afraid I do not know of any standard RPC helper library for librabbitmq-c.ERROR: Could not find ELF base! - Return-to-libcI am learning Stack Buffer overflow in Return-to-libc.
and tries to open a shell of "/bin/sh" over the existing one.
I have two issues, I use GDB's PWNDBG in Kali linux:
When I am causing the overflow using characters like 'A' in sets of 4 bytes (as uint32-t is 4 bytes), it reaches till the address of "/bin/sh", even shows it and then gives seg. fault.(Can share the pwndbg output screen)
When I use integers (for 4 bytes each) to cause overflow, it starts the shell and then gives
Since I am identifying the file reading and storing as vulnerable process for overflowing, I believe sorted data has no consequence.
identifying the issue why its not opening the shell.Ok, found solution.
The Stack buffer overflow isn't happening above.
The exit function wont work as when the data is sorted, it is placed above system
So now after file reading, a shell is spwaned and when typed exit, exits clean.When defining new type require you to have an alias name for it to compile?I got this code from Edubaca
In line 12, Edubaca describes that Course took the alias name course, what is the reason for that and why is the syntax like that?
Also, is Courses in line 4 necessary?
As you can see, you use a double pointer (**ptr) when you want to change the contents of a or b (the address where it points to), a more useful example:
I can see dummy_t *srcpt = (dummy_t*)(dstptr->b); meaning as a pointer is pointing to another pointer but then *srcpt should be a double pointer right? Like **srcpt
No.  That line means "treat the value of dstptr->b as though it were a value of type dummy_t *, and assign it to srcpt".  It's not a pointer to a pointer.
The expression dstptr->b has type int, which cannot be directly assigned to a pointer type.  (dummy_t *) is a cast, which tells the compiler to convert the type.
Like Vlad says in his comment, this code doesn't make any sense.  It may compile, but just because it compiles doesn't mean it's right.Why does arithmetic operations on (more than) three unsigned chars always trigger a warning when using -Wconversion?Compiling the following code
This does not happen when adding two unsigned chars, i.e. a + b, for example.
It happens when using any combination of arithmetic operations between more than three unsigned chars.
And it does not happen with clang version 12.0.1.
Why does a + b + c, for example, result in an int that must be cast to uint8_t before assigning to k to supress the warning?This is due to how integer promotion works in C. The C standard specifies that if an int can hold the values of the types of a and b - then they are converted to int for the operation.
This is the case with uint8_t and int.
Every integer type has an integer conversion rank defined as follows
If an int can represent all values of the original type, the value is
converted to an int; otherwise, it is converted to an unsigned int.
These are called the integer promotions. 48) All other types are
In old versions of gcc - this warning was triggered by addition of two operands like a + b. In GCC 10 this was removed by default from -Wconversion, but this warning is available with -Warth-conversion. From the GCC 10 release notes:
Warith-conversion re-enables warnings from -Wconversion, -Wfloat-conversion, and -Wsign-conversion that are now off by default for an expression where the result of an arithmetic operation will not
i.e. since GCC 10 the reason a + b doesn't trigger a warning with -Wconversion is that both of the operands of the express are uint8_t, which do fit in the target type (int).
With a + b + c this is no longer the case, because a + b becomes an int, and the expression becomes int + uint8_t - which seems to not satisfy the criteria that "the operands of the expression do fit in the target type".PyErr_Print after PyErr_RestoreI have already extracted what I want using PyErr_Fetch. Now, I would like to restore everything back in order to use PyErr_Print. My code is basically this:
I got an exception SIGSEGV during PyErr_Print() pointing to traceback.c
Should I update the reference count before using PyErr_Print()? I've tried to increase without success.STM32L062,I2C no ACK when clock settings different than defaultI need to communicate STM32L062 with MC3413 accelerometer, but communication only works when uC clock settings are default (16MHz HSI) and generated by CubeMX. Any change (for example changing source to ~4MHz MSI) causes slave to not give ACK. Im beginner and i've tried many combinations of prescalers etc. and i have no clue what is wrong. Here is my main loop code:
Write a C program that displays the below menu and performs the corresponding operation, according to the selected menu item.
Write separate functions for each menu item and call the related function according to the selection.
The menu:
(1) Calculate fibonacci value of the entered number,
(2) Calculate the equation (Get value of R from the user),
(3) Get four numbers from the user, sort them in ascending order
Enter your choice:
When the user enters a number (1, 2 or 3) corresponding function will be called to perform the operation.
The user will enter -1 if he wants to continue and the menu will be appeared on the screen again.
You might think that 2i would evaulate as 2 * i, but in C, 2i is a complex int.
You would expect this to print 2, but instead we get a warning.
Second issue: Integer division. The other answer already covered it pretty well, but for the sake of self-contained answers:
In C, integer division finds the integer solution and discards the remainder.
You need to "type coerce" one of the values in your numerator or denominator to a float/double, which will coerce the entire fraction to a float/double.
You can do this either with 2.0*i or (double)2*i. Either one works, but the second one is more explicit for readability.
To fix the issue, simply change 2i to (double)2*i.There are only three edits required to get a clean compile:
If you did not see something similar to the following upon your compile, then turn on all warnings:
To ensure accurate calculations, see integer division addressed in another answer under your post.Facing this Error: tempCodeRunnerFile.c:3:38: note: expected 'int *' but argument is of type 'int' void printArray(int row,int col,int *marks){I'm trying to print a 2D array with function like
I'm a beginner in programming learning my first programming language
The problem is that you are calling the function passing to it an expression of the type int where there are used uninitialized variables i and j instead of passing the array itself.
and the function declaration and definition like shown in the demonstrative program below
Why does assigning a string literal as value of a structure's character array member yield an error?There exists a structure I defined as follows:
In this specific instance, however, declaring an object of the structure and assigning a string literal as value to either of the two character array members yields an error. The error erupts when I assign values through the following way:
The error that my GCC C compiler yields is as follows:
error: incompatible types in assignment of 'const char [12]' to 'char [20]'
Does this occur owing to the fact that the string literal is a constant character array whereas the character array members I have declared as constituents of the said structure are not constant in nature? Would declaring the said structure members as constant resolve the error at hand? Or do I have embrace a different approach to load initial values to the said structure members?In C language = does not copy the context of the arrays. String literal is a const char array. To copy arrays you need to iterate through all elements of the arrays.
As string manipulations are very common in the programming C standard library provides string manipulation functions (strcpy, strlen, strcmp etc etc) 'out of the box'
You can only use the assignment when you initialize the object. During the initialisation, the string literal will be copied into the array.
The problem is in printf. In fact, when I comment out that line, the program ends normally. Then, I inspected the assembly output of the same program written in C and I saw that the compiler first subtracts 8 to rsp, and then, after printf, it adds 8 again. What is going on?
My program was running very well as long I use Integers, but when I converted this code for Floats the values (Dime(s), Nickel(s), and Penny(ies)) start to return non-expected results in the Int variable tmp.
An expected result for a number like 2.6, will be 2 Dollars, 2 Quarters, and 1 Dime, but sometimes, instead of use the Dime(s), the program skips them entire and make the operation with the Nickel(s), however, what is bugging me is that the program is always returning AWL=+ without any value and then the program stay froze forever.
Considering that my only thought is that I'm "suffering" from Float Imprecision, and I don't know how to solve it, so can anyone Help me?
Ps. The program needs to always return the maximum value from each coin before pass forward.Floating-point arithmetic is designed to approximate real-number arithmetic. IEEE 754-2008 says “Floating-point arithmetic is a systematic approximation of real arithmetic…” So there is no way to “lock” decimal digits in binary floating-point. It is intended to be used where you want an approximation, such as modeling physics. That even includes some financial applications, such as options evaluation. Although floating-point arithmetic can be used for exact calculations in some situations, these require particular care and are generally only pursued in special circumstances.
So the answer to your question on how to lock decimal places is there is no good way to do that with binary floating-point. Attempting to do so generally just yields the same effects as integer arithmetic but less efficiently and with more difficult code. So use integer arithmetic and scale the amounts according to the smallest unit of currency desired, such as a penny.W5500 can't get IP, No interruptI recently switched framework from Arduino to ESP IDF. I've been strugling to implement my w5500 SPI_ETH dev board for the simple fact that the featured example uses an interrupt pin that is not mapped on my board.
The PHY does seem to work because I get a serial print of a Link Up/Link Down when I plug/unplug the Ethernet cable. For an unknown reason, the esp cannot get an IP address from my router.
I tried changing the function static void emac_w5500_task(void *arg) to a polling logic in the esp_eth_mac_w5500.c file but still can't get an IP address.
I found this thread thread on the same problem that was solved by connecting the interrupt pin. Is the hardware interrupt pin mandatory considering my code was working on the Arduino framework? What I'm I missing?
I'm trying to pass a code in C to python but I don't understand correctly how it works in C, can someone help me? [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.Want to improve this question? Update the question so it focuses on one problem only by editing this post.I need to pass this code to python but I don't understand how to do this in the pointer parts
I didn't understand what the code was supposed to do
An if statement is not a loop. Loop statements, called iteration statements in the C standard, are while, do, and for statements.
A break exits the innermost switch, while, do, or for statement containing it. (A switch statement is not an iteration statement, but break will exit it.)C program stops on certain number [duplicate]This question already has answers here:I am new to C and I chose a project to get better
I wanted to make a program that would brute force every number if it is according to Collatz conjecture.
For those who do not know what Collatz conjecture is click here
If a number is odd it is multiplied by 3 and increased by 1
If even it is divided by 2
This is repeated until it reaches 1
The problem is that when I run it it stops on number 113383 and has problems with it. I even let it run for more than 5 minutes but it did not do anything. I even tried to run the same number in my python program which test input number and it had it in no time.
Is number 113383 anyhow different in C or is there a flaw in my code.
Please help if you can.
Thank you very muchTry declaring the variable as a "long int" this could be due to the maximum size of an int witch is –32,767 to 32,767