Cannot display all the element of my array in C? I've some trouble with my array. Well, I want to sort an array of 5 integer elements. However, when I display them, it displays only the last element and its value is not the one I'm expecting to have after sorting.
Hence, could help me to troubleshoot this problem, please?
Any help would be much appreciated.
You should not hardcode the size of the array using 5.  Instead, you should use sizeof(dtab)/sizeof(dtab[0]).
Inside ordonnerTableau you have taille=5 but you try to fetch tab on these posisions: tab[j] > tab[j+1] without being sure j is less than 5.Convert string to uppercase with "for" cycleI am working on a code in C that, based on a 26-character key input by the user in command line (ex: BCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZA), encrypts a source message (plaintext) to an encrypted message (ciphertext) by replacing each letter of the source with the letter contained in the key at the i position, where i is the position of the source message letter in the classic alphabet. Uppercase and lowercase should be kept.
The expected output is the following:
To do this, I need an "upkey", a string made of the uppercase characters the user input as key, and a "lowkey", a string made of the lowercase characters the user input as key.
I append here below the piece of code that is giving me problems. In the cyle below, what I aim to do is to simply iterate the upkey and to replace each i character of it with the correspondant lowercase character, under the hypothesis the key the user input is made of uppercase only, as in the example above (argv[1] = [BCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZA]).
What happens when I run it, is that both lowkey and upkey are manipulated.
Can anyone please explain me what I am not seeing?The reason of the problem is that the both pointers upkey and lowkey points to the same string argv[1]
The last line is equivalent to
You need to allocate an array for lower case letters. If your compiler supports variable length arrays then you could write
taking care to allocate enough space for output.array doesn't show correct values [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.Want to improve this question? I'm trying to show the values of the array after getting it from user
I want to show data entered data but it shows the last entered value
in this case it's 1Replace instances of n with i.  Variablei is being used to track the count in each for loop and n is never set or initialized.Modify the factorial calculation in fact.c file to include single precision and double precision float values [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.Want to improve this question? Add details and clarify the problem by editing this post.Modify the factorial calculation to include single precision and double precision float values and compute the relative error of n! vs. Stirlings Approximation for n! for large n, around 2000!
I am very confused with the above question. i am able to calc factorial till 171 when I use double and  till 1754 when I use long double. But am confused how to calc factorial for 2000 and above number using single and double precision particularly in C language. Can anyone please help on this?You could use two variables, one float type and one integer type, then store part of the exponent in the integer variable.  You can then periodically divide off powers of ten and increment the integer variable for each power of ten.  In the end you should be able to use the two values to make the comparison.Code in main function cannot be executed after calling a functionMy code is stuck after i called a function in main. After i called place_seat function in main, the code below place_seat function cannot be executed.... Please help me. I had stared to this code for a few hours. Im devastated. Below is my place_seat function code:
Winsock recv not blocking [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.Want to improve this question? Add details and clarify the problem by editing this post.I am writing a simple server. I would like to receive data from a client but it seems recv() function is not blocking to wait for data. What should I do? I have read most solutions relating to this saying the on Windows, recv() is blocking by default. Only one article says that on multi-threaded windows, recv() is non-blocking by default. What do I do to make it blocking? I am running Windows 10.
the loop keeps printing will not block. I would like it to print will block
Your code does not work for 10 digit numbers because you always multiply value by 10 in the loop after adding the digit and divide it at the end. For a 10 digit number, the last multiplication causes an arithmetic overflow on your platform where both int and long probably have 32 bits.
You should multiply value before adding the digit and remove the final division:
Note that the code can be further simplified and modified to handle larger values and detect overflow:
Your compiler considers the type long int as having the same range of values as the type int.
In this expression statement
Bear in mind that your function does not process a sign mark.
Take into account the function xstraylen should be declared the following way
I would use the Horner's rule to compute the value of an integer, like this.
Depending on what you want to do, you must take care and check suck that not to produce overflow, the input to be correct, etc.  But this is the simplest idea I can imagine for your problem.Converting large bit strings to hexadecimal in CI need to convert large bit string like this :
The problem is that my keys are usually longer than 50 or 60 bits, and when I try to convert them with strtoll(key, NULL, 2), the returned number is far bigger than what a long long int can even hold. Is there an efficiant way to convert this into hexadecimal directly ?
Thanks a lot for your help !#include <sys/wait.h> error in VS-Code for WindowsI'm using VS Code on Windows 10 and have written some C code. In the code, I need to use the sys/wait.h header. Since it is a Linux-specific header, I need to compile and run with WSL2 using Ubuntu as a subsystem. The code compiles and works with WSL but VS Code gives me the following error:
"#include errors detected. Please update your includePath."
My guess is it's because my current includePath points to gcc on my Windows machine and not in WSL, which is why it can't find this header. Is there a way for me to also include the headers found in WSL Ubuntu or do I have to live with this annoying error?Current CPU core utilization via /proc/statI want to calculate the current CPU core utilization on Linux from c or c++.
Load average (getloadavg()) doesn't fit my purpose because it show only the whole CPU load with specific calculation.
Based on common sense I understand that the literally current CPU core load is either 0 or 100 percents. But I can calculate it in delta time.
But I sill can't figure out how exactly to calculate CPU core load per second for example.
Related post: How can I determine the current CPU utilization from the shell?Was asked this question regarding the calculation of the total salary after the tax in a coding test. Was asked to solve this in C [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.In a country, there are 'N' slabs for Income tax which are common for all age groups and genders. As an income tax officer, investigating a case, you have the amount of tax paid by each employee of an organization.
Considering the income tax slabs and rebates offered, you need to find the total amount paid by the organization in salaries to the employees to match it with the amount reported by the organization in its filed Income tax Returns.
Information regarding the income tax slabs, rebate amount and the income tax paid by each employee of the organization will be provided. Rebate amount is subtracted from the total salary of each employee. Tax is calculated on the remaining amount.
You need to calculate the sum of total salary paid to the employees in that year.
First Line will provide the Amount in each slab, separate by space (' ')
Second Line will provide the percentage of tax applied on each slab. Number of values in this line will be same as that in line one, separate by space (' ')
Third Line will provide the Rebate considered
Fourth line will provide the tax paid by each employee, separate by space (' ')
Looking forward for your help.Get time stamp to microsecond degree of accuracy. On a Raspberry Pi [duplicate]This question already has answers here:I am trying to obtain the timestamp to the degree of microseconds in my program:
I don't think tm is accurate to this degree according to this: https://www.cplusplus.com/reference/ctime/tm/
Is there another method of going about this?
I am using a raspberry pi 4 running the latest version of raspbian.pthread_create using 85MB VIRT instead of 8MB VIRTOk so I understand VIRT != physical RAM and it's often advised to not worry about it etc.
But I'm perplexed as to why each of my pthread_creates result in a VIRT increase of 85MB instead of the usual 8MB as per my ulimit stack setting of 8192 kbytes.
I suspect it's got something to do with heap, but I'm new to C and am not sure about this aspect.
It's within a for loop with 15 iterations, and the resulting VIRT is 1275MB (ie 15*85)
The inner for loop only runs when the gset_vars->global_threads_max var is set to less than 15 (which doesn't impact the resulting VIRT size anyway).
The function call (HTTP_Multi_Thread) just runs some basic libcurl to download a single file and writes it to disk. The args are just the url and local filename.
Note: For the sake of keeping the code snippet short, it doesn't show that after the main loop I am indeed running pthread_join over all threads (tcount).Inserting a block of bytes in the middle of a file without rewriting everything? [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.Since files are stored as blocks on disk, is it possible to insert a block in the middle of the chain of blocks?
This is because, without such an API, if I wanted to insert a 4kb block in the middle of a file at a certain position, using the traditional read/write apis, I would essentially have to rewrite everything in the file after that position and shfit them by 4kb.
I'm ok with an answer that only works for some OS or some file systems. It doesn't have to be cross-platform or work for every file system.
(I also understand that not all file systems or hardware use 4kb for blocks - answers that work for different numbers are also ok).I am not sure about filesystems that would allow extending a file in the middle easily. Then again many modern filesystems do not actually have a chain of blocks. The chain of blocks was a thing on the FAT filesystem family. Instead the blocks in modern filesystems are often organized as a tree. Within a tree you can find the block containing any byte position in O(lg n) reads, with the logarithm having such a large base that it can be considered essentially constant.
While the chain would allow for the operation of "insert n blocks in between" with comparative ease, the tree unfortunately does not. This doesn't mean that the tree is the wrong structure - on the contrary, many database systems benefit greatly from the fast random access that it offers.
Note that the tree enables you to have another thing that might be useful instead of holes - Unix file systems have sparse files - any blocks of the file that are known to contain zeroes need not actually use disk space at all - instead these blocks are marked unallocated and considered containing zeroes in the tree structure itself.Is there a way that I can access the Operating System's default color picker in the C language?I am learning to program in the C language. And could you please tell me how I can access the Operating System's default color picker in the C language? I've tried popping up an alert box in C. In the same way, can I pop up a color picker in C???
Pass an array by valueGenerally when we pass array by its name, it’s call by address. That means if we change any value of array outside main() it will be reflected in main().
So, what should I do to if I want to pass the array as an argument of a function and call it inside main() such that any change in that function won't be reflected inside main()?
Now I want to pass the abc array to Foo by value.It is possible to do this by wrapping the array in a struct. You can include a field for the size of the array so that you don't need to pass this parameter explicitly. This approach has the virtue of avoiding extra memory allocations that must later be freed.
C already passes arguments to functions by value, but array identifiers decay to pointers in most expressions, and in function calls in particular. Yet structs do not decay to pointers, and are passed by value to a function, meaning that a copy of the original structure and all of its contents is visible in the scope of the function. If the struct contains an array, this is copied too. Note that if instead the struct contains, say, a pointer to int for a dynamic array, then the pointer is copied when the struct is passed to the function, but the same memory is referenced by both the copy and the original pointer. This approach relies on the struct containing an actual array.
Also note that a struct can not contain a member with an incomplete type, and so can not contain a VLA. Here I have defined the global constant MAX_ARR to be 100 to provide some space for handling differently sized arrays with the same struct type.
You can also return a struct from a function. I have included an example which modifies the Array struct which is passed into a function, and returns the modified struct to be assigned to a different Array struct in the calling function. This results in the caller having access to both the original and the transformed arrays.
Bear in mind that Foo() does not receive any information about the number of elements in the array passed.
If you want Foo() to do a similar thing, so the caller doesn't need to, it is necessary to pass the number of elements as a separate argument.
To avoid a memory leak, it is necessary to ensure, in the second case, that the function does not return before calling free(temp).
In both versions of Foo() above, additional error checking may be needed (e.g. to detect null pointer or zero sizes being passed, that malloc() succeeds, etc).(I am not sure why Ryan didn't volunteer to provide his own answer, but I agree that the following should work:)
will no longer exist once we leave the scope of Foo. Also, for non-primitive array elements you would need to do more copying work.Where head of this Link list points after recursive statementI have simple link list program, that would create/print it, and later on print the last 2 number from it (in reverse order)
what exactly it returns with return;, and where head is pointing after the
For starters you forgot to specify the return type of the function in the function definition
what exactly it returns with return;, and where head is pointing after
the ReverseList(head->next); statement ?
then as the function has the return type void  and the return statement does not include an expression then the return statement returns nothing.
The function parameter head is a local variable of the function. The function does not change the pointer head declared in the file scope
in the first call of the function the parameter head has the value of the global variable head due to this statement
If the value is not equal to NULL then the function recursively calls itself passing the value of the  pointer head->next
So in the second recursive call of the function itself the value of its parameter head is equal to the value of head->next where in this expression head is the function parameter of the previous call of the function.
That is the parameter head at first gets the value of the global variable head and then the parameter is initialized sequentially by values of the data member next of the next node in teh sequence.
So for the list that contains nodes with values 1, 2, 3 you have
You need to remember reinitialize them if you want to call the function one more time. It is better to make the variable k a function parameter.
The function could be defined the following way as it is shown in the demonstrative program below.
Scanf into multidimensional Array, allocated with mallocI am trying to allocate a new "multidimensional" array based on the user input and then populate the array with the values provided by user. After that the contents should be printed. The array seems to be allocated correctly, but the internal cycle can write only one value to the newly allocated array before crash.
If I get it correctly, all the values in multidimensional array are stored in a row. That is why I have chosen that way of accessing the cells of the array.
Could someone please explain why the code does not work as expected? And what are the right ways/best practices to achieve the same target?
I assume that I could do that in a "classical" way - allocate an array of pointers and than allocate an array for each pointer. That could work, but does not answer the question why the sequential accessing is not a viable option.
The reason these two sizes aren't the same is because the first size is from the local definition of struct foo, while struct bar is using the previously-declared global definition of struct foo, since the definition of struct bar preceded the local definition of struct foo.Stack smashing detected on castingI have the following code:
When I run it I get a stack smashing detected error. I suspect it is because of the cast but I can't figure out why. I would be grateful if someone could explain me.The structure type1 will require double the space in memory required by type2, but you’ve only allocated a variable of type2 in statement type2 local;.  This would have been allocated on the stack, since it is a local variable.  When the pointer is cast in statement copy((type1 * ) &local);then dereferenced in statement * arg = RTE; inside of function copy, the program will copy the larger contents of RTE into the smaller allocated memory of local basically overflowing.  If the stack fills from the bottom up, this would basically corrupt the stack causing failure when the program returns.
As a general practice it is not a good idea to cast between two different types of pointers.  Also, for ANSI C the compiler may determine how to arrange struct members relative to the base address for the struct, so it is not safe to assume any particular member of the struct will be transferred any other particular member, regardless of type and definition order.
If you want to copy the contents of an object of type1 into an object of type2, it should be done member by member.How to handle file handling with functions imported from another file in C?So here is how my file structure looks like
Which means the code inside fun is searching for pass file inside the file_handling directory where the fun.h has been imported, which is totally understandable.
But it does not solves my problem.
What is want is that no matter where I include the fun.h file it should search for the file inside the pas directory only.
I asked similar quetion sometime ago and someone mentioned that variable sized array can't be allowed in some computers' architecture but I could not locate the question on SO. So can anyone please elaborate what that means
Also if I have multi dimentional array in main then what are the other ways to handle them with array, can I use array of pointers, can someone please give me an example  of array of pointers to do the same shown in my correct example with example codeAn int(*)[3] isn't an int**. You probably want an int* and you can get that by taking the address of the first element in your 2D array.
Is this a good way to do it? Is there an easier way to do it? Whats up with the brackets around the pointer?You don't need the extra level of indirection.
An array, when passed to a function, is converted to a pointer to its first member.  So if you declare the function like this:
Need a way to print a character ("*") every time my loop reads a specific number (0) from an input file [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.
My program scans a set of numbers into an array (A[]), and prints them out again in another format by using a for loop to insert spaces, newlines, etc. What I need is a way to print the character "*" in the place of the number (0) everytime it is read from the input.
I understand that `104.99992' is due to floating-point precision issues. But why does the use of direct numbers not result in a loss of accuracy?a * b uses float arithmetic. 100 * 1.05 uses double arithmetic.
Your C implementation probably uses IEEE-754 binary64 for double and binary32 for float.
1.05 is a double constant. The decimal numeral 1.05 in source text is converted to the nearest representable double value, which is 4728779608739021•2−52 = 1.0500000000000000444089209850062616169452667236328125.
float b = 1.05; converts that value to float. The result of the conversion is the nearest representable float value, which is 4728779393990656•2−52 = 4404019•2−22 = 1.0499999523162841796875.
When b is multiplied by 100 in float arithmetic, the result is the representable float value that is nearest the real-arithmetic result. It is 13762559•2−17 = 104.99999237060546875.
When that is printed with six digits after the decimal point, the result is “104.999992”.
In 100 * 1.05, only double arithmetic is used; there are no float values. When the double 1.0500000000000000444089209850062616169452667236328125 is multiplied by 100, the result is the double nearest the real-arithmetic result. It is 105•20 = 105. When that is printed with six digits after the decimal point, the result is of course “105.000000”.
Summary: There are generally rounding errors in floating-point arithmetic. In float arithmetic, they are easily visible when more than a few digits are printed. In this example with double arithmetic, the rounding errors happened to cancel—the double nearest 1.05 was slightly above 1.05, so the rounding in the conversion rounded up. Then, when that was multiplied by 100, the double nearest the real-arithmetic result was slightly below it, so the rounding in the multiplication rounded down. These effectively canceled, producing 105.
If you execute printf("%f\n", 100*1.05f);, 1.05f will be converted directly to float instead of to a double, and the multiplication will be done with float arithmetic,1 and you will see the same result as for a * b.
Footnote
1 The C standard allows extra precision to be used, but generally you will see the same result here.Root node getting lost when i add elements to it?
So i declare a pointer to a struct and set it equals to NULL,
When i check for the values i have given to the pointer in the fucntion using printf, i see that in fact, theyre in the struct pointed by the root, but after i have called the fucntion, if i check if the values are still there it returns nothing. for example (in main):
this returns nothing! but if i did the same thing inside the function add, it would return the values of id and age 
Could anyone help me understand what it is i am doing wrong please?
Here is the complete code if its of any help, i have translated some things in the previous part for it to be easier to understand, its in portuguese:
Your add function declares root as a parameter.  This means that, within the add function, root is a local variable, and setting it has no effect on the global definition of root.
If you want it to operate directly on the global definition of root, just remove the root parameter:
That way it will operate directly on the global definition of root.
Alternatively, if you don't want to hard-wire it to a single global definition of root, you can solve it in one of two ways.  One is to return the new root value:
In this case the caller would need to assign the return value to the global root (or any other tree root you desire).
An alternate way to achieve the same effect it to pass a pointer to the root pointer:
For this version, the caller would pass the address of the root pointer, rather than the root pointer itself.argument of type "struct variable" is incompatible with parameter of type "const char *"I know that strcmp is expecting type char I guess and pstate is in this case pointer on structure and I dont know how to dereference this to work honestly.
what is that value got printed when I tried to print the string with %d? [duplicate]This question already has answers here:This code has undefined behavior because the type of the argument (char*) isn't the type that's required for the %d format specifier (int).
"Undefined behavior" means that the C standard imposes no requirements on what will happen. The program could fail to compile, it could crash at run time, it could print random garbage that isn't necessarily and integer value, or literally anything else.
The most likely result is that the call will pass the address of the character string to printf, which will interpret that address as an int value. If int and char* happen to have the same size, you might get a meaningful representation of that memory address. (Use printf("%p\n", (void*)"Zara Ali"); if you want to see a meaningful, but implementation-defined, representation of that address.)
It's also possible, but I think not typical, that integer and pointer arguments might be passed in different registers, so the garbage value printed by printf might be unrelated to anything.
Bottom line: The code is incorrect, and it needs to be fixed. If your goal is to create a working program, don't waste your time trying to figure out why it behaves the way it does.
If you're curious about the inner workings of the implementation you're using, exploring the behavior of code like this can be illuminating, but don't expect it to behave consistently.Technically, the value printed is the memory location of the literal string "Zara Ali" (i.e. the memory location of the character 'Z' in your case).
As far as intent goes: it probably is not very useful to print the memory location of the string (as the comments to your post highlight).I made array of pointer. What is difference between names and names[0]?https://i.stack.imgur.com/7Fgkp.jpg output)this the link for image of output
when value of names and names[0] is not same.
where can i learn this topic properly.
the problem is "i don't know that. which variable is storing which adress or value".First of all, the following line is wrong:
Using the %d format specifier is not the correct way to print a pointer. Although it may work on most 32-bit platforms (on which pointers normally have a size of 4), it will most certainly not work properly on 64-bit platforms (on which pointers normally have a size of 8).
The correct way to print a pointer is using the %p format specifier and by casting the pointer to void*:
printf( "Value of names = %p\n", (void*)names );
On most platforms, the cast to void* is not necessary, so you can probably safely omit it (even if ISO C formally requires the cast).
As already pointed out in the comments section, writing names[i] is, by definition, equivalent to writing *(names+i).
The reason why the difference between names and names+1 is 8 is because in both expressions, the array names decays to a pointer to its first element, i.e. to &names[0]. Incrementing a pointer by 1 does not increase the address by 1, but rather makes it point to the next element. Since each element of the array names is a pointer and seems to have a size of 8 on your platform (you seem to be on a 64-bit platform with 64-bit pointers), the address is incremented by 8 when you increment the pointer by 1.
In your picture, you seem to also be asking why the difference between *(names+0) and *(names+1) is 9. The expression *(names+0) is equivalent to names[0], which is a pointer to the string literal "Zara Ali". The expression *(names+1) is equivalent to names[1], which is a pointer to the string literal "Hina Ali". So both of these expressions represent addresses of string literals, i.e. addresses of where the compiler is storing a certain string literal. Where compilers store string literals is up to the compiler to decide and compilers may behave differently. However, in this case, it seems that the compiler decided to store both string literals next to each other in memory. The string literal "Zara Ali" has a length of 9 (including the null terminating character), so that explains why the difference in the addresses is 9.Pictures will help:
Each string literal ("Zara Ali", "Hina Ali", etc.) is stored as a zero-terminated array of char somewhere in memory (string literals are stored in such a way that they are available over the lifetime of the program).
Each names[i] stores the address of the first character of each string literal.
The expression names has type "pointer to pointer to char" (char **)1 and evaluates to the address of the first element of the names array - it’s equivalent to writing &names[0].  The expression names[0] evaluates to the address of the first character in the "Zara Ali" string literal - it’s the same as writing &names[0][0].
Use the %p conversion specifier to print pointer values instead of %d - %d expects its corresponding argument to have type int, and pointers are not integers:
This is pretty much the only time you need to explicitly cast a pointer to void * in C.
Unless it is the operand of the sizeof or unary & operators, or unless it is a string literal used to initialize an array of character type in a declaration, an expression of type "N-element array of T" will be converted, or "decay”, to an expression of type "pointer to T" and the value of the expression will be the address of the first element of the array.
The variable names is declared as an array of pointer to char (char *[]).  However, when names appears in an expression and it is not the operand of sizeof or unary &, it is converted to type "pointer to pointer to char (char **).
This is why names is an array of char * - each of the string literals is itself an array expression ("9-element array of char"), but in this context "decays" to type char *.Capture stdout of child process with overlapped I/OI want to spawn a child process and capture its stdout (and stderr) using overlapped I/O without using threads. Here's my current knowledge of all the stars that must align in order to achieve that, i.e. here's the recipe:
Set an inheritable handle as the stdout (and stderr) of the process when creating the process (set hStdOutput and hStdError fields of STARTUPINFO).
Tell the process to inherit any inheritable handles from its parent so that it will inherit said stdout handle (arg bInheritHandles of CreateProcess()).
The handle itself must be the writing end of an anonymous pipe. I will then capture the process' stdout by reading from the reading end of that pipe.
The pipe must be overlapped-I/O-enabled.
Since anonymous pipes don't support overlapped I/O, I must emulate them using a named pipe (which I create with FILE_FLAG_OVERLAPPED). This pipe will serve as the writing end of the anonymous pipe. I then open this pipe using CreateFile to get a handle to the reading end (this is more/less how anonymous pipes are implemented in Windows also).
The reading end of the pipe must not be inherited by the child process, so I am careful to not make it inheritable. (does anyone have a good explanation for why that is?)
After the process is created and the writing handle is thus inherited, I close said handle in the parent process. This is so that (thanks @o11c in the comments) the writing end of the pipe is left with only one handle open to it (the handle that the child holds), so that when the child exists, the pipe is closed and reading from it fails with a broken pipe error (otherwise we would never know when to stop reading).
Now that everything is set up I can start reading from the pipe: I create a completion port, perform an overlapped ReadFile() and then check the completion status.
And here's the problem: GetQueuedCompletionStatus() hangs until timeout and then returns WAIT_TIMEOUT instead of returning immediately with either some data or with ERROR_IO_PENDING so I can check again.
Below is the minimum amount of C code that reproduces the problem. Any help appreciated. Thanks!
I saw the "<<" and ">>" operators used a lot and I don't understand what do they do.
so if you know what do they do please tell me.cannot find proper file encoding for the libbgi.a file from the graphics library for CI was trying to open the libbgi.a file from the graphics.h library for C, but I keep getting the error "File was loaded in the wrong encoding". No matter which encoding I use it just wont open properly (https://github.com/SagarGaniga/Graphics-Library)The file libbgi.a is a precompiled library. This means that it is a binary file, not a text file.
You should not attempt to open a binary file as a text file. There is no text encoding with which you could open it.
Libraries are intended to be passed to the linker when building a program.array type has incomplete element type 'struct instruction'How do I make this struct instruction visiable to struct cpu state? Like If I put cpu state struct first it doesnt work bcs than some other arguments wont be visiable to struct instruction but if i put it reverse again i have a problem.
The problem is because of trailing newline characters after your second call to scanf(). Since it is of %d type specifier, when you press Enter A newline character ( '\n' ) is left in the stream and the next scanf() tries to read that newline character, and thus, it seems as though it just skipped input, but in fact, it read the newline character. 
So, the newline character is stored in the variable sex, and thus, it skips asking you for input for that variable.Unless you are interested in whitespace like newlines, do not use %c. Simply use the string conversion %s and use the first character of the input.
Rationale: All scanf conversion specifiers except %c ignore white space including newlines. They are designed to read sequences of input tokens (numbers, words) where the amount and nature of white space is irrelevant. The words can all be on the same line, or each word on a different line; scanf wouldn't care unless you force single character reads with %c which is almost never necessary.Change your code to 
I have added an extra space before the format specifier %c, to accommodate any previous input like newline (\n). Another alternative method is to use getchar() immediately before you take any character input.
Also, if you perform string input with scanf,  it will not read the input after encountering a whitespace. So, instead use fgets for taking any string input which might contain spaces.
Another thing I changed in your code (trivial) is int main() and return 0.This happens because blankspace is also treated as a character and and happens when you press enter.
And then enter the values one by one separating them by newlines (press Enter).
This helped me too when I had the same problem. 
That makes scanf skip any other characters that a user might input, including newlines. 
Before you can configure the timer itself, you need to initialize a struct that you will use to configure the timer (there are slight differences in the values needed for upmode, updownmode, continuous mode). You can download the Driverlib Manual MSP432 DriverLib for MSP432 devices which contains detailed use of the timers.
Another very helpful tutorial is Interrupts, Timers &  Debugging
You are mixing both Driverlib names and register-level names in your code. That's fine, just make sure you keep the nomenclature straight and don't confuse register access names with user variables, etc..
Now, to configure your timer Timer_A0, you need to initialize a structure to use configuring the time. An example for configuring the timer in up mode would be:
Above the timer is configured to use ACLK (32KHz), but you can use SMCLK as well.
Within your code you will need to configure the timer using the struct above. For example:
You can also configure/set any additional timer interrupts you plan to use, e.g.
At this point you have your timer and interrupts configured and read to use, but the timer is not yet started. Before the timer and interrupts are active, you must start the timer itself. Generally, you do this right before you enter you program loop (the while (1) { ... } loop). That way you can configure other peripherals without having your interrupts starting to fire until you complete all your configuration. After everything is configured, start the timer:
With every timer, you have two primary interrupt service routines provided by driverlib. The first handles CCR0 and is named TA0_0_IRQHandler() for Timer_A0 (or TA1_0_IRQHandler for Timer_A1, etc..)). It's declaration is:
All other interrupts associated with the timer use TA0_N_IRQHandler(). For instance for capture/compare registers CCR1 - CCR5 and the TAIE rollover interrupt (one clock-cycle after CCR0). It has a declaration of
Since you are looking to control a robot arm, I presume you will be using the timer for PWM control. The tutorial covers that fairly well.
I placed complete example using Timer_A to driver PWM on pastebin at MSP432 PWM Control of Tri-Color LED. That shows the use of upmode to drive PWM.
DO NOT OVERLOAD THE INTERRUPT FUNCTIONS WITH FUNCTION CALLS OR COMPUTATIONALLY INTENSIVE CODE. They are effectively signal-handlers. You want to avoid time consuming processing in the ISR (Interrupt Service Request) functions. Instead, the best approach is to set a flag in the interrupt function to complete processing in your program loop, e.g.
Above, each of the variable names contained in the if (...) statements are simply bool variables set in the interrupt functions that tell your program it's time to process whatever function they trigger. Processing is done in main() not in the interrupt functions. The reason being that heavy computation in the interrupt function can cause the interrupt to fire again before your processing is complete (your code takes more time than the time between interrupts). That is a sure-fire way to cause your program to crater.
The driverlib user's guide is a goldmine for configuring all the peripherals. See if you can get your timer working and look at the tutorial link I provided above. Let me know if you have further questions.Array goes of out of bounds without giving any errorsMy professor asked me to make a Codebreaker game in C. (User is breaking the code by guessing original code. original code is given as a cmd-line arg.After every attempt;(b, w): the number of correct colors in the correct positions (b) and the number of colors that are part of the code but not in the correct positions (w) are printed as Feedback.)Only standard input and output is allowed. I got it working, but the arrays Secret_Code2 and guess2 goes out of bounds. It has some strange behaviours like changing int variables causes changes in arrays even they are independent. I'm aware that C does not check array bounds, is there any improvements that i can make?
You aren't allocating space for the terminating null character in your character arrays.  Each array needs to hold up to 4 values, plus a terminating null character. So you need to declare them to hold 4+1 = 5 characters.  Otherwise writing the null character can write past the end of the arrays.
Also, inside your loop, you are attempting to print those arrays using printf with %s before null-terminating them. You need to null-terminate them, at the proper point, before printing them with %s.Pointer to one-before-first element of array is UB. When was this first defined so?Decrementing a pointer to the first element of an array is an undefined behaviour as of C17. This answer cites C17 standard saying
If both the pointer operand and the result point to elements of the same array object, or one past the last element of the array object, the evaluation shall not produce an overflow; otherwise, the behavior is undefined.
Is this the earliest standard where this was defined? How such operation was defined in earlier standards? Was it legal before?The very earliest C standard, C89, has the same rule in 3.3.6 Additive Operators:
When an expression that has integral type is added to or subtracted from a pointer, the integral value is first multiplied by the size of the object pointed to. The result has the type of the pointer operand. If the pointer operand points to a member of an array object, and the array object is large enough, the result points to a member of the same array object, appropriately offset from the original member. Thus if P points to a member of an array object, the expression P+1 points to the next member of the array object. Unless both the pointer operand and the result point to a member of the same array object, or one past the last member of the array object, the behavior is undefined. Unless both the pointer operand and the result point to a member of the same array object, or the pointer operand points one past the last member of an array object and the result points to a member of the same array object, the behavior is undefined if the result is used as the operand of a unary * operator.
I don't believe that forming pointers to the "-1" element of an array has ever been well-defined C.  Of course there might have been specific implementations where it happened to work, or was documented to do so.Difference between pipe system call and reading/writing to stdin/outA pipe connects the stdout of one process to the stdin of another: https://superuser.com/a/277327
My question is, what is the difference between the simple code above and using the pipe() system call? Does the system call essentially do the same job without writing to the terminal? More on Pipes: https://tldp.org/LDP/lpg/node11.htmlThe pipe() system call allows you to get file descriptors (one for reading and one for writing) for a channel (a pipe) that allows to stream bytes through multiple processes. This is an example where a parent process creates a pipe and its child writes to it so the parent can read from it:
When a shell encounters the pipe (|) operator, it does use the pipe() system call, but also does additional things, in order to redirect the left operand's stdout and the right operand's stdin to the pipe. Here's a simplified example of what the shell would do for the command echo "hi" | ./a.out (keep in mind that when duplicating a file descriptor it gets duplicated to the first index available in the open files structure of the process):
A pipe is an inter-process communication mechanism that leverages I/O redirection. However, pipes are not involved in all I/O redirection.
Since child processes may inherit file descriptors from their parent process, a parent process may change what files the child's standard streams point to, unbeknownst to the child process. This is I/O redirection.Are there placeholders for attributes of a struct? (C) [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.I'm trying my hand at CS50's Filter and I'm at the blurring of pixels part. I'm able to access colors of a pixel with
I want to be able to call a function that calculations the average of the surrounding pixels and pass in the color that I want the average of. Is there some sort of placeholder so that I can access a particular element/attribute of the struct? (Not sure of the proper name of it sorry).
I'm still very new and tried putting it between brackets and so on but nothing worked.
Here's the function where I try to get the value of the passed on color.
You cannot modify string literals because they are read-only by definition. However, you can declare "char arrays", and they can be modified:
So I've been reading up about the what goes on inside x86 processors for about half a year now. So I decided to try my hand at x86 assembly for fun, starting only with 80386 instructions to keep it simple. (I'm trying to learn mostly, not optimize)
I have a game I made a few months ago coded in C, so I went there and rewrote the bitmap blitting function from scratch with assembly code. What I don't get is that the main pixel plotting body of the loop is faster with the C code (which is 18 instructions) than my assembly code (which is only 7 instructions, and I'm almost 100% certain it doesn't straddle cache line boundaries).
So my main question is why do 18 instructions take less time than the 7 instructions?
What gets me is how I use pretty much the same instructions the C code does, but just less of them?
If you need more info I'll be happy to give more, I just don't want this to be a huge question. I'm just genuinely curious because I'm sorta new to x86 assembly programming and want to learn more about how our cpus actually work.
My only guess is that the out of order execution engine doesn't like my code because its all memory accesses moving to the same register.Not all instructions take the same time, modern implementations of the CPU can execute (parts of) some instructions in parallel (as long as one doesn't read the data written by the previous one and the required units don't collide). Latest versions do translate the "machine" instructions into lower level, very simple ones, that are scheduled on the fly to be executed on the various units in the CPU in parallel as much as possible, using a whole lot of shadow registers (i.e., one instruction can be using the value in one copy of %eax (old value) after another instruction writes a new value into another copy of %eax (new value), thus decoupling instructions even more. The hoops they jump through for performance's sake...Creating arrays in C using one-dim arrays#include <stdio.h>
What is the way to free all the objects (No memory leak) while not freeing memory i shoudlnt be freeing ?This actually doesnt have any memory leak.
The issue was in the way i stored the string.
When passing it to a function it didnt free the memory anymore.Parsing a buffer in CThis is a C question about parsing through a buffer. I have a buffer char buffer[BUFFER_SIZE] that looks something like this: b'\x01\x02\x00\x04\x00\x04aaaabbbb' Basically I want to parse them out into other values like:
I've split this into two files in order to avoid including the C header file in exposed code, i.e. to get a cleaner separation of either side of the interface. If you don't care about that, you could as well use just one file of inline wrapper functions.
Concerning the approach you asked about, I'd really consider that an XY problem (search for that term online!). Trying to rename the imported functions is very hackish, at least it is unusual and surprising to the casual reader. Using a set of wrapper function is a common approach though.
Also, for functions that are not as trivial as the example, you sometimes have dynamically allocated returnvalues or error codes that are returned. In both of these cases, the wrapper code would not just provide the same function under a different name. For dynamically allocated returns, it would use either containers or smart pointers, for error codes it would use exceptions. In any case, those are things you can't represent by hacking the linker to rename symbols.