Get Stuck when calling function in main functionI'm a beginner in writing C language code. When i call a function into main function, my code gets stuck. When i debug my code, it is free of error but when i run it, it is stuck. I have no idea.Can i know why? How should i solve it? Please explain to me.... Your kind hearted is appreciated. Thanks in advanced. Below is my code:
The basic problem is that the function doesn't know how big the buffer is, so it continues reading until it finds a newline or encounters EOF, and may overflow the bounds of the buffer it was given.so,use scanf("%[^\n]s", name); instead of gets(name);
If I run this now, the compiler gives me a error (N undeclared).
What kind of preprocessor should I use to make this possible?
Does this also means I'm never getting a result? Printing paragraphs with newline charactersI have to write a C program where the output should be the same as the input but with all the vowels removed. Everything works except my program doesn't print out newline characters between sentences. I have to use printf and scanf.
So you need to add a newline yourself at some place(s).
As suggested, I'd read the input character-by-character and print directly immediately afterwards expect in case of a vowel.
Why to read the input line by line? you run the risk of making a mistake with the newline character!!!
the first for loop is here to navigate through your input ( Line 10 )
the second for loop is here to compare every vowels with each char in your input array ( Line 11 )
the if statement is to avoid printing the vowels which only bypasses vowels and not \n ( Line 12 )
the break keyword is to stop the second for loop when you find a vowel ( Line ( Line 14 )
you can easily add scanf.
I have something like, where I try to use macro expansion with a calculation resulting into a string of chars using C:
Obviously, this doesn't compile... How may I achieve my goal to avoid a function encapsulating this? It's doable.
You can initialize a string as a normal array. It allows to do the computation over individual characters.
Still not perfect, because it adds those extra heading zeros but it may be good enough for OP's application.I try to use macro expansion with a calculation resulting into a string
It is not possible to use just macro expansion to convert a result of calculation to a string. It is not (*feasibly) possible to use C preprocessor to convert the result of a calculation to a string.
How may I achieve my goal to avoid a function encapsulating this?
Strongly prefer in such cases to use a better and more powerful pre-processor than C preprocessor, like M4, Jinja2, PHP, or generate the source code.
To convert the result of a calculation to a string in C preprocessor, you would have to enumerate all possible cases one by one and prepare a string for it.
If you are open to such code, then you could use boost/preprocessor and apply stringify operation after the expansion, which works suprisingly good:
Application crashes with error "Guru Meditation Error: Core 0 panic'ed (Interrupt wdt timeout on CPU0)."I have written following app. There is a button attached to GPIO 4 and and HC-SR04 ultrasonic range finder with TRIGGER and ECHO pin on 18 and 19 respectively. The idea is simple that when I press the button, the ultrasonic range finder should find distance and dump the value to stdout. I am using esp-idf framework to write the application. This is the code
I have previously tested code upto the pressing of button and the timer and interrupt are working fine. The code runs up until the ECHO pin is initialised at which point it crashed with the error in post title.
Also I am using devkitc as development board and it doesn't have the JTAG port I guess so I am confined to using printfs to debug. Is there a better way to debug RTOS based apps on esp32?In libcurl, how to reset authorization headers when reusing a connection?Seems like this is not a new issue...
You have filled  the memory with the the ascii representation of tom then you read it as an integer, taking byte order into account. This is probably happening here: (assuming int is a 32 bit type on your platform):
The value 0x6d6f74 (which is v6[0]) converted to decimal is 7171956.
Be aware that on a big endian (google that term) architeture v[0] would be 0x746f6d00.
But don't do these kind of things, it's undefined behaviour (also google that).Unix networking programming in C/*
Also what is that void sigchld_handler(int s) doing and where are we using it?The program forks child processes. It is the responsibility of the parent process to wait for them. That cleans up the child's entry in the process table. If you do not do that, your children will become zombies once they exit.
This code sets up a handler for the SIGCHLD signal. That signal gets send to the process if a child process ended. The handler then uses waitpid to get the exit status of all children that have exited.
Note that this program does not use the exit code of the children.what's this piece of code doing
It's registering a signal handler to execute on receiving the SIGCHLD signal.
The signal handler calls waitpid() to remove the zombie processes. The code is executed when a child process terminates: the parent process receives SIGCHLD signal and executes wait*() call in a signal handler, notifying the kernel so that kernel can remove the child process.
what is that void sigchld_handler(int s) doing

It is declaring a function named sigchld_handler() that returns nothing and takes one argument of type int. 
The %f and %d were a sort of mangled hybrid of what they should be. The conversion of those stops at the first character that cannot be used, without your intervention.
Side note: you really must check the result of scanf() function family: the number of successful conversions made."%f[^,]" is legal, yet certainly not what OP wants.
User time execution and kernel time on two different resourcesI have a question about how is possible to modify the Linux scheduler(Linux kernel in general) to specify resources (CPUs) to run an application, to be clear, I'm wondering is there any way (even not efficient and slow) to tell the kernel scheduler that executes the user part of the code on specific core and the kernel part on another one?
I know in terms of execution it may have no sense but in terms of debugging and studying specific subjects, it may help a lot.
I couldn't find any article, book, document about this, I appreciate it if refer me to some references too. How to convert the 4-byte `char` array to one variable of type `unsigned long`?union sUnion {
I want to put the data from rdata into the r.hex variable to produce a result of -12.04If assertion fails change the type of the integer
So this is my current code for an airline reservation system. One of the functions needed is by saving the data that are inputted, so that when the program is closed it will still display the saved data as it will be accessing a saved file. But upon doing the save function, the program does create a file, but instead of it having the inputted data, it just has a file with nothing in it. Please helpWhen you call saveFile() the newent index is not pointing to the last entry in the array; it's pointing to the first "empty" space in the array.
You need to specify the index you want to save... or, if you trust your users, just save newent - 1
To save all entries you need a loop. Either call your function (possibly rename saveEntry()) newent times, or use a new function (saveArray()) which takes the whole array and the number of valid elements
As already mentioned in the comments, your approach to saving/loading data is bad.
Read the entire file once the program starts, load it into a data structure, and write it back when the program stops. Define two functions to do so:
Without malloc() in sum_retbyptr(), the below program works well. Why it does not have error?
Your program triggers undefined behavior, i.e.: a situation which is not defined by the C standard and in which everything may happen: program crashes, program gives invalid results, gasoline price goes up, and program could work perfectly as well (like in your case).
However, it is not reliable, since next time you start the program you may have a different behavior.
Interesting article about undefined behavior.
Therefore, the address contained in ptr is not guaranteed to be valid/usable, and it is not guaranteed to have enough space to contain an int value.
However, as you experimented, ptr's garbage address may work just fine. But it will usually crash your program in the long run. Why I cant declare a constant in a function?I am getting this error when I try to execute the following function
I read somewhere the constants in C must be declared directly, it is not allowed to initialize them, I guess that is what I have done.This is a limitation of the language... or a feature (depends on who reads it) for the const tagged object.  I think your interpretation of the const keyword, applying to a data object with a limited life, should make it immutable for the life of the object, this is, the execution of the block in which it is defined.  But the compiler makes the data effectively a constant (like the constant PI) and it must hold the same value for the whole program life, and not on each function invocation.  In the case you post, the value of the expression that the constant will have is not known until the function is started and the parameters receive their values (only then can the initialization expression be evalutated), so the constant is not actually a constant (You could provide different values for the function parameters in different call and make the constant value different than in 
the previous call).
In java, for example, there's a final keyword to mark a data value as constant, and you must preserve (you are not allowed to assign/change values to it) during the life of the object (this meaning since it is created until it is destroyed), but the initial value is determined dynamically, at the time of creation.  This is not true in C.  A const declared data object must be actually a constant, and it must be initialized by an expression (called a const expression) whose value can be determined at compilation time.Constants are not real variables: once the code is compiled constants are translated into hard-coded values (immediate operands), or references within a section of the program that cannot be written (usually .rodata).
So, constants can't be assigned a value at run-time. You have to set a value that is known at compilation time, hence a value that does not depend on other variable(s). (e.g. const int length = 42; ).
If you cannot know the value of length before compiling the code, then you need a variable, not a const.
I guess you needed a constant to declare the array dataSubUnit. The usual way to solve this is to declare an array large enough to contain any possible length:
I have an assignment from my school, which requires me to write the c program on PuTTY, I already finished my code, then the code was executed perfectly, the compiler doesn't complain anything, but I got a segmentation fault. Please help!
This is the assignment
These are commands which I typed from PuTTY
which assigns NULL to infile, and if becomes if (NULL) which is never true.
after this line infile is NULL, but program continues and tries to read from NULL file.
How to sanitize allocated memory in C before using free function?I have created a nested struct called employee. I allocate a space for an employee from heap using malloc. Then, I release the space using free. As far as I know, free function only marks a location available for the future allocation. Hence, the content of allocated memory remains in the memory and it causes heap inspection.
Structs I defined in the beginning of my program as follow.
I implemented a function called sanitize to replace the private fields with junk values (0xAA in this case). Then, I tested sanitize in the main function.
During runtime I get segmentation fault. What is wrong with my program? How and in which order shoul I sanitize nested structs?
Thanks in advance.Make sure to properly allocate memory for your objects. Functions to do it help a lot.
otice how we take care to always allocate space for every object, and delete each object appropriately. You could very well combine the sanitize and destroy functions.
There is an important concern to your structure design. If you change an employee’s details (for example, changing his name) it is possible that your sanitization can fail and employee data can be left unsanitized. For this you should make it a strict policy to never mutate an employee structure: make it const, or make additional functions to mutate the data and perform proper sanitization and memory management (sanitize, free the old value, strdup the new value).
You might simply want to create a fixed-size record to handle employee data. This would simplify your life significantly and free you from having to deal with quite as many memory-managing employee functions.How to compare ./a.out and a .txt file with diff?So I have a c program, e.g. test1.c, and I wanted to compare it to a text file called test1expectedoutput.txt.
How would I do this?
I compiled the c file (written in nano) by doing gcc test1.c, but how do I compare it?
Comparing the .c file to the .txt obviously does not work as it just prints both of them out in full randomly, but if I try compare in that file directory with diff using:
How could I compare these after compiling?I understand you mean to compare the output of your c program with the txt file.
In that case you can first store the output to another file by redirecting standard output to a .txt file:
So you can do it without storing it into another file by simply redirecting standard output into diff command's standard input, with a single command:
Then run diff actualoutput.txt test1expectedoutput.txtBoth Sanat and Mythos are correct.
What I ended up doing was doing the ./a.out > output.txt then using diff, the diff (if the file is correct) doesn't output something so what I like to use is diff -s text1.txt text2.txt which will then, if identical to double check, output that they are identical.
The problem is, it was not identical and it wouldn't tell me why, no matter what I tried and colours, so I manually nano'ed both text files, and went in, and just after messing around found that one randomly had an extra space, normally it would colour the differences but it doesn't colour spaces... so that was fun.How to set fan speed using SMC Key in MacBookI'm writing an application that reads values of temperature of specific core in the processor, fan speed etc. using SMC keys.
I have some troubles with setting values to specific key (e.g. setting a constant fan speed). I debugged the program several times and it seems that I assign inappropriate values to inputStructure and function IOConnectCallStructMethod doesn't set any value to fan and  returns weird result = -536870207.
I suppose everything is about changes in the system after software updates and a device model (I'm using MacBook Pro 15 2019) but access to such information on the web is limited.
Adding way to get min number beside the max numberI'm trying to find the minimum number beside the max number, the issue is if I tried to make it in another if statement I get 0 on all numbers, is there a proper way to add a way to get min number ?
is there a proper way to add a way to get min number ?
There are many ways to do it and it's opinion based which is the best.
But one criteria is that it's working correct. Currently your code isn't as it completely ignores a
To keep the coding style that is used in the question one could do:
You are initialising your max value, which is good, but in order to make it useful, you might need to initialise it to a more convenient value.
Therefore I'm thinking of the smallest value max can't even have. As max is an int, I'm thinking of INT_MIN, that value being defined in the already existing header file "limits.h", so your code becomes:
For min, you might do the same, initialising to INT_MAX.This is an alternative approach I can think of. It will save a little bit of memory space and provide a better experience to the user.
I suggest it will be more convenient if you use the way suggested in Dominique's solution. Instead of below line,
Use it at the begining.delete all numbers greater than a particular valueI'm trying to do an algorithm to delete all numbers from a queue greater than a particular value, here is my code.
The problem occurs when the if condition is true. In that case you don't want to continue after that if block with n1 = n2;, because n2 is now a reference to the deleted node. On the other hand, you still need to move n2 to point to the next node, so that should happen in the if block before the current node is freed.
but it works with execlp or any other exec* except execv. What should be updated to make it work with execv?
It is expected that this code print something in main stdout like cat afile | grep sth.It is needed to provide full path for
I am having trouble instantiating a struct due to the string/char array.
and here is where I am getting the error:
It says a value of type char * cannot be used to initialize the entity of type char.
Why is my code trying to receive a char type in the first place?
My struct is expecting char name[10] which is an array of chars
and I am passing an array of chars.
I tried adding * and &, which I believe does not make sense either, but still it did not work.
Can someone help me understand this?Because neither C nor C++ support direct assignment of an existing raw array. Both allow to initialize an array with initializer list {x,y,z...} or string literals though.
Or better std::string for char arrays.If you're trying to use a compound literal, the syntax looks like a cast followed by an initializer list:
Why does scanf("%d") work with an 8-bit datatype casted to an int*, but printf does not? I'm trying to figure out if scanf can understand the datatype for %d purely based on the format specifier by hiding the datatype behind a void* and casting it to what %d should mean (ie, int*):
Why is it possible scanf() read into an 8-bit type when casted to an int* as verified by the direct printf of a and b?  Shouldn't it overrun?
Conversely, why is printf() unable to print the 8-bit types that are dereferenced as *(int*)v[0]'s when scanf can read into them?
Is there some compiler-time magic that tells scanf/printf what the datatype is since the format specifier is undoubtedly insufficient?
I know this code is probably errant, but I'm still curious about the details underlying the example.
Thanks for your help!TL;DR: Doing something that is undefined behavior is not guarenteed to cause a crash or diagnostic.  It might appear to work.
Why is it possible scanf() read into an 8-bit type when casted to an int* as verified by the direct printf of a and b? Shouldn't it overrun?
It does overrun -- you're writing (probably) 4-byte values into 1-byte spaces, so you are clobbering 3 bytes following.  The thing is, out-of-range writes like this are undefined behavior, which might crash, or might not and might appear to work.  Most likely they just corrupt something somewhere that will cause some later code to mysteriously crash, which is likely what is happening here (the printf call crashes or misbehaves because the data in the v array was corrupted by the scanf call).
But it did overrun, and the fact that a and b ended up containing sane values is not any kind of "verification"!
How about reading the specifications?  Or at least the manual page?  Although there is something to be said for experimentation, the best you can hope for from that alone is to learn about how your particular implementation does particular things.  Relying on good documentation as the basis for your experiments puts you on much firmer footing.
The docs would support the conclusion that scanf relies exclusively on the field directives appearing in its format string to judge the types of the second and subsequent arguments.  If you pass arguments of incorrect type then undefined behavior results.  scanf expects the argument corresponding to a %d directive to be an int *, and as far as the language specifications go, a void * will not do, much less a pointer to some complete type other than int.
Now, it is fairly common for all object pointer types provided by a given C implementation to have the same size and representation, such that converting among them via cast does not affect the representation of the value.  In such a case, your cast itself, though incorrect, probably does not cause a practical problem for scanf.  (But it could, for reasons that might be obscure or mysterious.  That's the nature of UB.)
However, the fact is that the pointed-to object is not an int, nor an object of type compatible with int, so if scanf attempts to access that object via the pointer then undefined behavior occurs for that reason as well.  This is a violation of the "strict aliasing rule".  Unlike the cast, this one is very likely to cause observable misbehavior in practice.
Why is it possible scanf() read into an 8-bit type when casted to an int* as verified by the direct printf of a and b?
Who says it doesn't overrun?  Your program has undefined behavior.  That can manifest as doing what you expect, or of appearing to do so.  In this particular case, I would be inclined to guess that the appearance of doing the right thing is in part dependent on the order in which you read the variables and on the fact that (I infer) you are using a little-endian computer, such as an Intel-based one.
You are again invoking undefined behavior by accessing a and b as if they were ints, when in fact they are not.  Undefined behavior does not have to be consistent.  Or it may be consistent with structures and behaviors that do not manifest at the C-language level.  This is not something for which the language owes you an explanation: that's what "undefined" means.
Is there some compiler-time magic that tells scanf/printf what the datatype is since the format specifier is undoubtedly insufficient?
The format string is all that the language specification requires there to be, and it is absolutely sufficient to tell scanf and printf what to expect.  It is not sufficient to enable them to validate that the argument types are in fact what they were told to expect, but if they had such a capability then they would not need the format string to tell them about the types in the first place.  It is the programmer's responsibility to provide arguments that match the format string, and this is not onerous because the programmer provides the format string themselves, too.  In the scanf case, it is also the programmer's responsibility to provide valid pointer values that scanf can use without violating the strict aliasing rule.  The language specifies what happens when you do that correctly; it does not promise any particular behavior when you do it incorrectly.Writing long hexadecimal value directly into the pointerSo lets say I have a hexadecimal value like "77726974696E672068657820746F206D656D6F7279". I want to malloc a void pointer enough for that and write this directly into the memory.
I tried something like that but didn't work.
So as far as I understand it first converts hexadecimal value to integer and then writes it in memory but I don't want it. There must be a way to write binary or hexadecimal directly into the memory, we're talking about C but I couldn't figure it out and couldn't find any answers in internet. Btw, I'm trying to hide a string so it'll be a bit surprise for my friend.In the sample, why size of `char _Alignas(double)` is not 8?#include <stdio.h>
How the local variable stored in stackAlignment determines where the addresses will be, not how much space they will take.
A char only takes up 1 byte, even if it is aligned on an 8 byte boundary. There are 6 unused bytes between c1 and c2.
Often, the alignment and the size will be the same, or the alignment is rounded up to a power of 2. That's because on many architectures it may require multiple FETCH instructions to retrieve from a non-aligned memory address.
In your case, c1 is aligned on a 1-byte boundary, so it is placed at the first available position on the stack.
c2 is aligned on an 8-byte boundary, so it skips over however many bytes are needed until the address is aligned on an 8 byte boundary. This means (address % 8) == 0. If c2 were of type double, it would need to move to the next aligned address, 8 more bytes ahead, but since it is only a char it fits just fine at the first 8-byte boundary. (EDIT: as others have pointed out, the compiler could rearrange the variables, and probably would in that case)
The alignment can be greater or less than the size of the element.
On some architecture, you simply HAD to align on 2 or 4 byte boundaries. The computers simply could not address the "in between bytes". The address lines aren't needed, so you can address 2^16 bytes of memory using only 14 address lines if you align on 4 byte addresses (and always read 4 bytes). That can reduce the size needed for the memory bus.I keep getting a segmentation fault and I can't find it! I think ive narrowed it down to a particular functionI say that it must be this function because it stops right after I enter an int and it doesn't read the print statement.
I have started reading Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces, when I ran the example 2.1 on my MacBook Air M1 with 4 instances in parallel it spawned 4 unique processes but then my laptop crashed after 2-3 seconds. Please find the steps to replicate below:
I have not tried this again as I am afraid of maybe damaging something?
Is this some problem with code or M1 SOC issue?
Update: DarkDust on Apple StackExchange pointed out that it might be because if the Redis server running, I killed the Redis service and then tried again and it is still crashing.Creating the execv argument array when the arguments are unknown at compile timeI am trying to revive an in-house CAM application, i.e. get it to compile on a current gcc so I can maintain it. I have 27 years of experience as an occasional C/C++ hack ;-)
The part in question is the command-line core, so no UI. It has a sort of front-end that does some checking and manipulation of its input arguments, and moves them into a new argv, used by execv to switch to 1 of the 2 different executables where the real work is done.
The existing code accounts for 5 different CL options, although from what I've seen only 2 are normally used. When trying to populate the new argv (char* const new_argv[32]) any way other than with a brace-enclosed list in the declaration, the compiler says I can only do it with a brace-enclosed....
I've googled for 2 days with no compelling results. Is there a slick way to do this, or just the ugly brute force way? Is there something seriously wrong with the whole design?Change the type of the array to char *[], then you can assign to each array member before passing it to execv.
This is allowed because a char *[] can be converted to a char * const[] but not a const char *[] or const char * const[]Reading hexdump, freadI have a binary file which has following hex values.
Reading this binary file with proper code should show the following:
highlighted area in green colour from the 1st image represents fields of father, room, attraction, cake which have output values of 1,1,0,1 separately.
I have to figure out what data types are used to print out 1,1,0,1 for the struct variables in my code written below.
I could guess that 1101 comes from hex 'd'. But, I am not sure how it is printed out in 4 different fields.
I know that my question is related to structure padding or bit fields. But, I am still not sure how my code and fread should be amended.
It would be much appreciated if you can help me out with this or provide me with examples or relevant readings.
You cannot use sizeof on a member of a bit-field. Doing so does not make sense, as a bit-field member can be smaller than a byte, but the smallest size that sizeof can return is one byte. Also, the smallest unit that fread can read is one byte, not one bit.
In your question, you state that the "highlighted area" (2 bytes) represents father, room, attraction, cake. However, ISO C only requires the compiler to support bit-fields the size of an int, which is 4 bytes on most platforms. You may want to try to use a uint16_t (requires #include <stdint.h>) instead of a unsigned int as the underlying data type for the bit field, and hope that your compiler supports it. Otherwise, the size of the input data and the size of the bit-field will not match, which would make things more complicated.
Also, another problem is that ISO C does not specify the order in which the bits are stored in the bit-field, i.e. whether the bits are packed from right-to-left or from left-to-right. Therefore, if your input packs the bits from the other side as your compiler, then you will have to compensate for that.
Instead of using a bit-field, it may be easier to use the bitwise-AND operator & to mask out individual bits and the >> operator to shift them. Using these two operators in combination allows you to extract individual bits.
Afterwards, If you assume that father is represented in the least-significant bit, then you can extract the bits and assign them to the appropriate variables using the following code:
See bitwise operations in C for further information.
If you want to instead solve the problem with a bit-field, then I recommend that you change the lines
and hope that your compiler supports it (gcc does) and hope that the compiler packs the bits from the same side as your input.
However, an additional problem is that the address of the bit-field cannot be taken, because it does not necessarily start at a specific address. As a consequence, you cannot pass the address of the bit-field to fread.
Therefore, you must wrap the bit-fields into their own sub-structure, like this:
Now, you still cannot take the address of any of the bit-field members. However, you can take the address of the struct containing them, and pass that to fread.Converting a const char * to a lowercase char *So I'm very new to c and I have this function that is supposed to take in a word and output it in lowercase. This is what I have tried so far
I started learning C in school, and I bump into a difficulty which could be extremely simple, but at this point I do not know about it.
I am trying to change the value of x, and I used the method *px = 8 first to change it.
but right after that I used x = 99, and it changed too, so I do not know what is the difference between them.
In this example, they're both equivalent.  They both accomplish exactly the same thing.
Why use pointers at all? Because the variable "x" is tied to a specific memory location: you can't change it.
The pointer "px", on the other hand, can be changed at runtime to point to DIFFERENT memory locations, if you needed to.
Why is that useful?  There are many different reasons.  For example:
When you malloc() dynamic memory, the system gives you a pointer.  You don't know or care where in memory it's located: you just use it.
Pointers are frequently needed to traverse the elements in a linked list
The ability to increment (++) and decrement (--) pointers simplifies many algorithms
Pointer (computer programming)Other answers explained what is happening, but in your question I also read you ask 'why' someone would want to use references instead of direct accessing of a memory address.
There are many reasons why anything is the way it is in computer science, but a few I think most people wouldn't argue that are helpful for a beginning theoretical understanding:
A lot of Computer Science as a discipline is efficient/optimal management of resources, in many cases computer memory, but I/O and CPU make up two other resources we manage to make 'good' software. You may recall that a simple computer can be thought of as a CPU, RAM, and Storage, connected by a "bus".
Up until relatively recently, most software wasn't being run on a machine with lots and lots of RAM. It was necessary that memory be managed for performance purposes, and though we have access to higher memory machines today - memory must still be managed!
We manage that in more recently created languages with abstraction - or in this context, doing things for people when we know with a high degree of certainty what they are trying to do. We call languages where much of resource management is abstracted and simplified as "high-level" languages. You are "talking" to the machine with your code at a high level of control relative to machine code (you can think of that as the ones and zeros of binary).
TLDR; Memory is finite, and pointers generally take up less space than the data they point to, allowing for an efficiency in address space utilization. It also allows for many other neat things, like virtualized address spaces.How does the stack work in multithreaded programs using Pthread?I'm having a simple question, I believe, as far as I know, a multithreaded program, they share the process's memory space between all threads, that includes, stack, global memory area, file descriptors, etc., I I want to know why in the first example, there is a consistency problem, since theoretically all threads share the stack, in the second example, the race problem occurs.
example with race problem, in this case the variable is created in the main thread and is passed as argument to the function, that is, the only shared stack is from the main thread ?
share the process's memory space between all threads, that includes, stack
There's a difference between sharing a memory address space and a specific region of memory.
While it is true that all threads share an address space, each thread has its own stack (allocation of memory).
A shared address space means that a given virtual address (pointer value) refers to the same physical memory in all threads.
But a dedicated stack means that each thread's stack pointer started off at a different place in that address space, so as to not conflict which each other.Every thread in a process has normally its own stack pointer (meaning it has its own stack).
This means that while they share the virtual address space, giving them access to other thread's variables or even the stack, they normally have their own stacks in different, non overlapping places of this shared virtual memory space.
When the kernel schedules a thread, it installs the thread's registers in the core or cpu it is going to use (and this includes the stack pointer with a value of stack for each thread)  Indeed, the kernel maintains a user mode stack for each thread and also a kernel stack (this last to allow two different threads of the same process to be executing a system call at the same time --the same or different--, which would not be possible if they had to share a single stack)config.h doesn't work after using make commandI just made a new fresh Arch install with DWM. The problem is: after customizing the config.h using sudo nano config.h and running sudo make command then reboot the keybinding that I have set doesn't work at all.
I expected to have the values on the second line of the box, but instead I got the memory address for what it seems. My rusty knowledge of c cannot bring me any closer to the solution...
Could anyone help me?
The code can be found here on test/term-info.janet.
I have to make a function that i can delete some itens of a specific product of a program tha kinds of manage the storage of a store. In this function, when i delete a item of a product the linked list have to be sorted. I´ve made this function to make data changes beetwen the nodes, so i can use it on a selection sort function.
The problem is that in the output the changes are not being successfull and i dont know why. 
I am using linux and I want to take a FreeBSD ELF binary(both dynamic and static) and wrap the binary so I can execute it and modify(the code that's being executed) it at the same time. I want the implementation to be clean and I don't care if it uses external libraries to do it.
Thank you if you for reading this question.Printing asterisk char prints broken character in CI am attempting to print an asterisk, but it prints a broken/special character in terminal print.
I tried to add an escape sequence in the assignment of the non-empty char in the tertiary operator line, but this didn't solve the issue. I apologize for any simple errors, I am pretty new to C.Your asterisk isn't a char, it's a string (char*, denoted by double quotes). If you want to print it correctly, you should use %s, not %c:
Having issues with an array of pointers in another arraythis assignment of mine has a structure pointer with an array of item in it and im having trouble declaring it correctly to scan data into is. any help would be greatly appreciated Ive included both structures and the two functions that interact with them for reference and i have commented the line that appears to be the issue, if it is commented out it compiles and runs for the first function but if it is active it gets only the first number and returns -1067542 instead of 0
Continuing from the comments, including why in C you don't need to cast the return of malloc (or calloc or realloc), it looks like you know what the pieces to dynamic allocation are, you just don't know how to put them all together yet.
Dynamic allocation in C is a basic way to handle storage an unknown number of items. When you are allocating for nested struct, it is no more difficult (conceptually) that allocating storage for a single pointer. The housekeeping for what you need to allocate for and when just becomes a little more involved.
The key to anything, whether allocating storage or reading input, is the validate, validate, validate each step along the way. This becomes critical for handling nested allocations, because when, (not if), an allocation or input fails, you must clean up (free()) any allocated memory to that point before returning an error condition. If you fail to free() memory associated with any one partially-allocated struct where the read or allocation failed -- your code will leak memory (bad).
With that as a backdrop, you can envision what you need to do fairly easily. Whenever you are using a pointer-to-pointer-to type (e.g. a double-pointer), the allocation is a two-step process. (1) you must first allocate pointers (2) to which you will assign the address for an allocated and filled struct, e.g.
Focusing on allocating for a single struct recipe and its allocated itemList, one way to minimize the cleanup you need on error, is to use a temporary struct recipe to fill thereby delaying allocation of the actual struct recipe you will return until you have filled and validated your temporary struct. That way for any intervening failure, all you need worry about freeing for cleanup is itemList if the failure occurs after it has been allocated.
Similarly, when reading all recipes from your file, you can employ a temporary pointer and ensure a recipe is returned, filled and allocated, before you allocate an additional pointer for your list.
In any code you write that dynamically allocates memory, you have 2 responsibilities regarding any block of memory allocated: (1) always preserve a pointer to the starting address for the block of memory so, (2) it can be freed when it is no longer needed.
It is imperative that you use a memory error checking program to ensure you do not attempt to access memory or write beyond/outside the bounds of your allocated block, attempt to read or base a conditional jump on an uninitialized value, and finally, to confirm that you free all the memory you have allocated.
For Linux valgrind is the normal choice. There are similar memory checkers for every platform. They are all simple to use, just run your program through it.
Always confirm that you have freed all memory you have allocated and that there are no memory errors.
There is a lot here, so take your time and make sure you understand the nesting of the structures and allocations as well as how you free the memory associated with your collection when you are done. Let me know if you have further questions.Is "array[x][y]" always calculated with pointer arithmetic?From what I understand in C:
When you declare a 2D array like int array[x][y] = {0};, the program gets a chunk of memory (x*y) int's long.
The problem I have is this: When you later type array[5][0], what happens? Does the program always treat it as pointer arithmetic (this would suggest the compiler creates an array of pointers for you when you declare an array)? Or does the compiler treat that statement differently depending on how you created the array?
Whether an array is an array of fundamental type, of user-defined type (struct, union) or of an array type does not change anything.
Thus, yes, the array decays to a pointer, which is used for pointer arithmetic (array-indexing ironically, which is sugar for pointer-arithmetic plus dereferencing), yielding an array element which is of array type, and after pointer-decay is in turn used in pointer-arithmetic.
All intermediate values calculated are just that, and need not be stored anywhere else.
Your second example is not actually a multi-dimensional array, but an array of pointers, a different beast though using the same syntax for accessing.Your code is invalid - it should be:
But this way you do not allocate 2D array only an array of pointers.
In this case, program has to dereference the array of pointers first. Then using this pointer the second index will reference the int value. It is not very efficient as requires at least two reads from the memory.
2D array is allocated as one chunk of memory. The position of element in the memory is calculated by the program without additioal reads from the memory. https://godbolt.org/z/5adjqxeKP
To dynamically allocate 2d array you need to use pointer to array:
Array indexing is equivalent to pointer arithmetic plus a dereference.  Specifically, E1[E2] is exactly the same as *((E1) + (E2))
In the case of either a 2D array or a pointer-to-pointer this happens twice.  Given your example of array[5][0], this is the same as *(array[5] + 0) which is the same as *(*(array + 5) + 0).
As for what happens in terms of pointer arithmetic, first let's look at the 2D array case.  In the expression array + 5, array is converted to a pointer to its first element and thus has type int(*)[y].  So adding 5 to this pointer moves the resulting pointer up by the size of what it points to (i.e. a int[y]) times 5.
For a pointer to pointer, array + 5 moves the resulting point up by the size of what it points to (i.e. a int *) times 5.
So it's the exact same expression, but the pointer arithmetic is different because what is being pointed to is different.C uses the types of operands to decide how to evaluate them.
array is an array, so it is automatically converted to a pointer to its initial element. Let’s call the value of this pointer p.
Then p[5] refers to the element of array with index 5.
p[5] is also an array, so it is converted to a pointer to its initial element. Let’s call the value of this pointer q.
Then q[0] refers to the element of p[5] with index 0.
array is an lvalue that is not of array type, so it is automatically converted to the value stored in it. Note that, when array is array type, a pointer to its first element is calculated from knowing where the array is stored. Here, where array does not have array type, the value is fetched from memory. Again, let’s call the loaded value p.
Then p[5] refers to the element with index 5, given that there is an array of elements stored where p points.
Because the type of array is int **, the things it points to have type int *. So p[5] has type int *.
p[5] is an lvalue that is not of array type, so it is automatically converted to the value stored in it. Again, this is done by loading the stored value from memory. Let’s call the loaded value q.
q[0] refers to the element that q points to. Thus, we have the element at offset 0 from where p[5] points, and p[5] is the element at offset 5 from where array points.
So array[5][0] is not calculated the same way. When it is an array of arrays, the memory addresses are calculated from the base address of array. When it is an int **, the memory addresses are calculated by loading pointers from memory.
lvalue conversion is so automatic and ubiquitous that we often do not think about it. In x = y + z;, y and z refer to objects, and the values of those objects are automatically loaded and used in the expression. This is called lvalue conversion. x also refers to an object, but it is not converted to its value because there is an exception for the left operand of an assignment operator. (The conversion also does not occur when an lvalue is the operand of sizeof, unary &, ++, or -- or is the left operand of ..)
In some languages, there is no automatic lvalue conversion, and you have to load values explicitly. For example, in BLISS, you have to write x = .y + .z, where the . indicates to load the value.Pictures may help.  For the sake of space, we’ll assume x and y are 2.  Given the declaration
Note that no space is set aside for any pointers - there is no object arr separate from the array elements themselves.
In this case, you have three pointers - arr points to a sequence of pointers, each of which points to a sequence of int.
So, how is arr[x][y] evaluated for each?
This is evaluated exactly the same if arr is a 2D array of int or pointer to a pointer to int.
In the second case, things are pretty obvious - we're dealing with a bunch of explicit pointers.  arr explicitly stores the address of arr[0], arr[0] explicitly stores the address of arr[0][0], etc.  So it's entirely logical that arr[i] == *(arr + i) and arr[i][j] == *(*(arr + i) + j).
But what about the first case?  No pointers are explicitly stored anywhere.  arr doesn't store the address of arr[0] (there is no separate arr[0], which means there's nothing to store the address of arr[0][0]).  So how can arr[i][j] be evaluated as *(*(arr + i) + j)?
Like so - unless it is the operand of the sizeof or unary & operators, or is a string literal used to initialize an array of char, an expression of type "N-element array of T" will be converted, or "decay", to an expression of type "pointer to T" and the value of the expression will be the address of the first element of the array.
When the compiler sees the expression arr in your code, unless that expression is the operand of sizeof or unary &, it replaces that expression with a pointer, and the value of that pointer is the address of the first element of the array.  Similarly, the expression arr[i] is also replaced with a pointer, and that pointer value is the address of arr[i][0].  Note in this case that arr decays to type "pointer to 2-element array of int" (int (*)[2]), not "pointer to pointer to int".
The address of an array is the same as the address of its first element - the expressions &arr, arr, &arr[0], arr[0], and &arr[0][0] all yield the same address value, but the types of the expressions are different - int (*)[2][2], int (*)[2], int (*)[2], int [2] => int *, and int * (which may affect how that pointer value is represented - it's possible for int (*)[2] to have a different representation from int *, although that's not the case on any system you're likely to encounter).
Remember how pointer arithmetic works - if p points to an object of type T, then p + 1 yields the address of the next object of that type.  If arr points to a 2-element array of int, then arr + 1 yields the address of the next 2-element array of int.  Going back to our first picture, but now with some additional expressions:
Again, whenever the compiler sees arr in an expression, it replaces it with the value of &arr[0] and uses pointer arithmetic to do the subscripting.Well,
declares variable as a single array of 5 elements, which are all of type int[10] (an array of 10 elements), whose cell size (assuming an int is 4 bytes) is 10*4 = 40 bytes.  This means that variable[3] is the fourth element, positioned at the address of variable plus 3x40 = 120 bytes.
And there, there is an array of 10 ints, if you try to acces the third element (variable[3][2]) you will have to add 2xsizeof(int) which is 8 bytes more.
So, yes, for a 2D array, pointer arithmetic works as it does for 1D arrays.  But when you allocate something dynamically with malloc, you need to know that the compiler manages array types (the types thar are sometype[n][m] with different n and m as different types, and *all types in C must be known at compilation time --this is part of the static typing characteristic of C--)
if you want to use some way of specifying dynamic arrays (arrays that are accessed with the notation [a][b]...[z]) in C in which space is allocated dynamically and only the needed space is allocated... you have to use pointers to solve all the intermediate accesses, as the runtime has no information about array dimensioning, because you have used pointers, not array types.  You cannot declare an array type and leave it incomplete... you use a pointer for that.  Even in parameter declaration, when you declare a parameter of an array type, it is automatically converted into a pointer... because you cannot pass an array by value, and the c language doesn't check array bounds.
So pointer arithmetic is one dimensional in nature, and you use pointers for dynamic arrays... no size of cells (or rows) is known to the compiler... so it cannot assume that each row cell is 26 integers size or less... you need to put a pointer to the start of the data (solving the previous to last computation) and you have to create axbxc....xy y-pointers (double, triple, fourthly, etc.) until you allocate the full array.
How can this be done (e.g. to handle a 2D matrix of n by m)?
this will allocate a pseudo matrix in which m[3][2] will be a valid double element and can be accessed, but m[2] is not an array of m elements, but a pointer to an array of m elements.Using variable names from extern functionsSo we have some C extern functions we are calling from another language (DPI-C).  This function below simply returns some sizes of some C++ queues we have (they are global variable).  It works fine.
We have selected the queues to be 0, 1, 2 for specific queues.  This varies for different programs, and it a headache to maintain.  We were hoping to index each queue with a string that returns the actual variable name.  Ideally, we would maybe push these names on some sort of list so we could have the function look to see if the variable is on the list..
Does anyone have any pointers on how to achieve something more maintainable in this regard?
The question applies to the Makefile in case of a program, and both the Makefile and the pkg-config file in case of a library.
And as a side question: what if I don't use any libc symbols at all? That would probably be a very useless program, but I'm curious.
I seem to recall some article or book recommending doing so, but now I can't find it.  Is there any situation in which doing so or not doing it can be problematic?
Edit:
I'm normally using gcc and clang.  (I also edited the third paragraph to explicitly ask about Makefiles and pkg-config files.)Should I explicitly link my program or library against libc, when using libc symbols?

No. From POSIX cc:

The standard C-language library is automatically available to the C-language program.


what if I don't use any libc symbols at all?

Then still do not link explicitly against libc and let compiler link with it automatically.

Is there any situation in which doing so or not doing it can be problematic?

When you are writing a kernel, bare-metal software, or other low-level program specific to some environment you are working with, and you do not want to link the standard library. Also, when you do not accept the license of the library.what if I don't use any libc symbols at all?

Then your program is freestanding and does not require linking with the standard library.
If you use gcc you need to compile it with -nostdlib command-line option.Error: expected expression, C. Can't define a variable as a lenght of an arrayI'm taking CS courses, and wrote a simple program to find an average of the given(inputed) amount of inputs.
When compiling, "expected expression" error occures on line 10(i.e. {int scores = [n];}
Any help or suggestions would be appreciated!!This is invalid syntax:
This creates an array called scores of size i, masking the array defined previously, and attempts to initialize it with a single value instead of a list of values.  If you want to assign to the existing array you want:
scores[i] = get_int("Please, enter the score: ");Can a cstruct from FFI be extended in python?I'm wrapping a library with CFFI. I have some simple structs that I'd like to keep C structs (or at least interoperable with c structs) but I'd like to add some additional methods to them for things like casting values, data transforms, etc. Does CFFI provide a facility to do this, or is my best bet composition, making the c struct a number of a python class? So say I have a struct like this in the ffi cdef:
This struct has an integer value that corresponds to an assumed data type for the data behind the data pointer.
In python I'd like to use the object like the following:
option_arg = c_get_arg() #=> some c function that creates a specific struct
option_arg.data #=> data cast to appropriate type based on custom logic, maybe transformed or even producing a python object
c_function(option_arg) # calling a c function with the struct, without having to unwrap it
Does cFFI allow for this, or is there a way I can cheat it? Or am I forced to always manually wrap and unwrap the struct in another object?Error deleting name from linked list in cSo, the program takes the names entered by the user, displays those names and removes a name that the user wants.
The problem is that when I type a name that wasn't entered, it removes the last name that was entered in the list.
if the name to be deleted is not found then the third expression of the loop temp = temp->next is evaluated and after the loop the pointer temp points to the last node that then is deleted in this code snippet
Another problem is if the name to be deleted is found then the pointers previous and temp are equal each other due to the break statement
Also the function should initially check whether the pointer node is equal to NULL.
The function can be declared and defined at least the following way
though it is better to exclude the code where the user is asked to enter a name. It is the caller of the function should provide the name to be deleted as a function argument. In this case the function will look like
How to identify the operating system in C during run time?I know how to identify the operating system in C during compile-time. For example, we can do something like this:
However, i would like to identify my operating system during run time. Is it possible?Supposing you are on a POSIX-compliant system and want the version information for the system, the uname routine provides that:
perating system defines ABI. The code compiled for one OS cannot run on another. Thus it doesn't make much sense to have such function.how to change multiple widgets property on button click GTK cI am trying to make UI using GTK in c for raspberry pi 4. I want to change the visibility of different widgets based on button click just to simulate a new page. I have tried everything available on the internet but as I am not that good at coding I cant figure out what is wrong.
can someone please help ?
This program compiles but when I press the button it gives error " assertion failed on gtk_widget_show " and also on widget hide. Also a segmentation fault occurs and the program crashes.
I am using cmake to compile my code.  I have attached the error screen shot.
enter image description hereThe function signature of your "clicked" callbacks is wrong. It should be of the form as described in the documentation:
Windows dynamic library conditional compilation, and C++/C mixing questionI am trying to understand some code that I have inherited, but am having some trouble googling my way out of it, and have some questions I hope some of you can help me with. The code can be seen just below, and is a .hpp (c++ header file) which declares a function.
I understand this as "if we are compiling from a windows machine, do something special".
Secondly I am confused about the necessity of wrapping the header in the extern "C" statement. As far as I can tell the header is checking to see if __cplusplus is defined, that is, if we are compiling with g++. The extern block is here to make sure I don't have issues with the g++ compiler if func() was found in say, a file called func.c instead of a .cpp file, and then compiled with gcc. I understand mangling, and how g++ changes function names to enable overloading.
As i have it contained in a .cpp file and hence intend to exclusively compile it with g++, do I need the extern "C" block, and #ifdef statements? Is there a case where this is crucial?What does __declspec(dllexport) do exactly?
When DLL is created, it does not export any symbols by default (unlike static library). In Visual C++, __declspec(dllexport) is the easiest way to export symbols. There are other ways to export.
As i have it contained in a .cpp file and hence intend to exclusively
compile it with g++, do I need the extern "C" block, and #ifdef
statements? Is there a case where this is crucial?
This allows using the function if you load the DLL from a C program, from a C++ program built by any compiler, or even from other languages with C bindings. If you work exclusively with C++ and g++ compiler, there is still a case when this is important: loading the DLL dynamically - in which case you need to supply your function name as a string (mangled unless you use extern "C").