Using graphics.h or the Turbo-C compiler on a Mac They are teaching us computer graphics in C in college using graphics.h, but I am using a Mac. I have dual-booted Windows, but it feels tedious restarting the entire computer just for 1 subject for 1 hour. Isn't there some way to write some Borland library code on a Mac?
EDIT I used an online C compiler called onlinegdb, where I can change the compiler to Turbo-C and can write graphics.Why am I getting SIGFPE here?I have made sure that in the statement i%a[i] == 0, that i and a[i] are between 1 and 100. But still, I get this error message!
Program terminated with signal SIGFPE, Arithmetic exception.
has a sense only in the case when n and m are not less than 101.
Pay attention to that the program does not guarantee that a[i] is not equal to 0.Vlad from Moscow correctly stated that the program does not guarantee that a[i] is not equal to 0. But he didn't make clear to you that the problem you ask about is not that "The user can enter any number" for a[i] - the problem rather are the a[i] numbers which aren't entered at all. The input is generated by the website, and only a[i] for i from 0 to n−1 are defined, while your loop tries to access a[i] for i from 1 to 100; an undefined a[i] can be 0; when such an a[i] is 0, the operation i modulo a[i] gets you the Arithmetic exception.
So heed Vlad from Moscow's warning and change your program so that it does not attempt to use undefined values.
is there a way I can fix this? Or an alternative approach?
You can basically keep your approach if you only use valid indexes into the arrays a[] and b[]; your main loop body could then be:
How is it possible that tv_sec of both timeval structures are the same but subtracting them gives me a non zero valuetimeval end_time;
The above time structures where initialized with gettimeofday() at some point.
How is the above possible? What is really going on?%d is not a proper conversion to use for the long int value elaspsed_time_s. (By the way, the correct spelling is “elapsed”.) Use %ld for elaspsed_time_s.
%d is also not a proper conversion to use for the time_t values in the tv_sec member. On POSIX systems, time_t is an integer type, but it is not necessarily an int, as far as I know. To print a time_t value, you might convert it to a long int and print it with %ld:
I know that after the loop goes once, when arr[6], the outer loop counts that there are two more 9 but after that is finished, and loop goes to arr[7], the outer loop still counts there is another 9 which is arr[8]. So my question, how do I stop the code when it has counted duplicates for each number in the array once. Thanks!
I found the answer guys, thank you for helping. I just needed to remove the 2nd for loop.
I think the problem is you go to the first nine, then it counts the next two. THEN it will go to the duplicate and also compare the duplicate against the other duplicate. I assume what you could do is check if arr[i] is not equal to arr[i - 1] so you don't compare duplicatesHere is a demonstrative program that shows how numbers of occurrences of elements of an array cam be calculated.
As for your solution published as an answer to your own question then the code invokes undefined behavior due to accessing memory beyond the array in this expression arr[i+1] when i is equal to NUM - 1
You don't need to use two for loops for this, it would be inefficient and increases the complexity of the code.
If you are doing this with hand you would
Bring another sheet of paper. for each number in the array:
if it's the first time you see this number:
Note it down and record it has count of 1 then increment the count by 1
if you only need elements that occurred at least twice, you can filter out elements with count = 1.
I didn't test this code but this is the concept, you can find more here.
This implementation uses more space than needed, but it has fast access time, if you move to cpp, you can use stl map or unordered_map for more space-efficient solution.Demo needs OpenCV for webcam images.(opencv is installed and set opencv4=1)I am trying to do object detection from a video file by using https://github.com/pjreddie/darknet.
I've installed libopencv-dev for opencv.
I've set opencv4=1 in Makefile.
You can load OpenCV from git and install sources
makeThe format specified for uint64_t is giving an error When I try to compile this code I get the errors saying error: format ‘%lu’ expects argument of type ‘long unsigned int *’, but argument 2 has type ‘uint64_t **’ {aka ‘long unsigned int **’} and error: format ‘%lu’ expects argument of type ‘long unsigned int’, but argument 2 has type ‘uint64_t *’ {aka ‘long unsigned int *’}
So how am I supposed to format testInteger to take uint64?
how am I supposed to format testInteger to take uint64?
It is a good idea to test for the success of malloc() and scanf().scanf as argument receive pointer, since testInteger is already pointer your &testInteger will pass pointer on pointer and that is invalid. You should only pass testInteger to scanf, not &testInteger. And in the print testInteger should be dereferenced. Your code should be:
Variable testInteger is a pointer.  In the first, instance &testInteger is realized as a pointer to a pointer since the pointer address is being referenced by &.  In the second case, a pointer is being used directly.  Function printf expects an integer value and function scanf expects a pointer where %lu is used.  For scanf just use testInteger directly and for printf use *testInteger which will use the value stored rather than the pointer itself.Freeing allocated memory (Valgrind error ("Invalid read of size 8"))Newbie trying to learn C here. I'm trying to write a program that allocates memory for a matrix, scans it, prints it and finally frees the memory. It first scans the number of rows and columns and then allocates memory for the matrix. Then it prints the matrix and finally frees the memory. (At least this is what I intend it to do). It seemed like it was working and the output is as I expect it to be, but when I run it with valgrind, it says "Invalid read of size 8 ... in 'free matrix'". I can't figure out why this is the case. Am I doing something wrong when I free the allocated memory? (Or elsewhere?). Any help is much appreciated. I have enclosed the code.
As kaylum said you need to make the free function as: free(matrix[i])
The reason is that when using free (in a matrix that is allocated in a way as you did) we need to pass the specific address of the rows allocated memory. When you sent matrix + i you referred an address of the entire matrix (e.g. when 'i' equals zero) and not one of the rows.Pass 2D array row address to a 1D array for future useI'm trying to store the row address of an array. It seems as though the addresses are passed correctly but they don't seem to refer to the values stored in the array.
I want to save the addresses so I can then use them in a Python application.
I don't agree with you. It works as expected. However, there is no guarantee, even kinda bad programming, the address of matrix is valid after returning from the function. So you shouldn't use the addresses of things defined in local functions if you don't allocate the addresses in heap.
The array matrix declared in the function func has automatic storage duration. It means that after exiting the function it will not be alive.
So an attempt to access the array after exiting the function invokes undefined behavior.
You could declare the array with static storage duration like
In this case it will be alive after exiting the function and you will may access its elements indirectly through a pointer.
use incorrect conversion specifier %p that again can invoke undefined behavior.
I have tried with clang also but is the same. Thanks in advance
the file that I'm trying to compile work with my intel Mac without problems. C Memory corruption using static arraysIn my Restuarnt project I have 2 arrays of structs. One to represent the menu, second to represent the tables:
Whay this is happening?As @mevets says.. To fwrite an array of struct just pass the array menu. Only if you pass a single struct then use & categoryHow can I dynamically update the bound of a for loop with OpenMP ic C?I am building a parallel version of a program that I initially wrote in a serial fashion. This function reads a file to create the input vector needed for following operations. Since OpenMP particularly likes for loops, I converted what was initially a while loop into this, that basically is a "dynamic" for loop, where the upper bound (limit?) of the loop is continuously updated until the file is over.
As a serial code, this works with no issues, even on very big files (1M+ lines). However, when I implement the OMP pragmas, it won't work. From my troubleshooting it appears that using the omp pragmas the upper bound (vec_size) cannot be dynamically updated. Is there a work-around for this issue? Thank you in advance.
Using arrays to compare charI'm coding this pattern game, but I am having difficulties in storing the previous input of the users "uno" and "dos" to a array so it can be compared, if same it will ask for another input which has not been picked. Example of This
That above is an example i am trying to achieve. I will post the code below. I would appreciate the help very much.
i am trying to implement a for loop for this but it wouldn't work , i am not getting the result that i want, adding this code. I would appreciate it if you would rewrite the code with this loop or if there is any other way please tell me how.
Why is scanf() skipped? Could you explain why only the first scanf() is working but others are skipped? This happens in every code I write on my PC but works on other computers.
BIG-O algorithmic complexity for the following codes Closed. 
I came across this snippet of code online and the algorithmic complexity of the code below is O(n log n) (given by the website):
There is another code from class which gave a time complexity of O(n):
By looking at the code, I find that both code are similar yet they gave a different algorithmic complexity. Is the reason for this due to the second code having two loops, whereas, the first code only have one?GDB info locals doesn't show all the available variablesI'm debugging Linux Kernel ran as a local QEMU guest and faced some misunderstanding regarding info locals. It does not show all the available local variables while printing them via p var works as expected. The only one variable shown is the ret. Here is the screenshot:
As can be seen, the info locals command does not show any variables, but they can be examined anyway. Here is the relevant fragment:
Is there a way to fix info locals? Sometimes there pretty huge amount of locals so examining them all by hand is extremely inconvenient.define struct with variable length vectors in CI need to declare a struct with variable length vectors..
The designated initializers, .x = and so on, are unnecessary if you initialize all members in order, but they are shown here as an option.
Also add some way of knowing how many elements there are. If they can vary, routines that are passed this structure cannot know how many elements there are unless they are given that information in some way, such as via another member in the structure or some argument passed to the routine.
Creating the arrays for the members to point to can be done in additional ways to the one shown above. You can use compound literals:
or you can use malloc to allocate memory for the arrays. (If you use malloc, also use free to release memory when you are done with it, although that typically may be omitted when exiting the program.)How to replace the fixed attack address of this meltdown code with the kernel address?And the content of the kernel address is determined by my input.The fixed address in the sample code is not suitable for demonstration and testing. I want to modify it to be determined by input. But I am not familiar with the operation of Linux. This code will run in a linux environment. The content shown is that the kernel address is exposed through the pro. C file, and then attacked by the meltdown.c file. But this is not flexible. I want to change it into the form of input, and then add an encryption algorithm. This makes testing meltdown more effective. But I don't know how to add the input parameter part to Linux.
I am trying to handle a STOP signal (Ctrl+Z). While testing this, I found the following issue.
As shown in the underlined portion, the SIGCONT does not restart the process like it is supposed to, but the fg command does. (The pid is correct I have checked many times)Can't find winsock.c or winsock implementationI want to read the source code of winsock, but I only see header which is winsock.h. where is winsock.c located I need to read the source code implementation so bad.As to my knowledge Microsoft never released source code for that library. The best you can do is use Ida pro or simillar software to decompile Ws2_32.dll or Ws2_32.lib. That is the closest you will get to the source code, but it will be in pseudo C.How do I parse a string using strtok in C?I tried parsing a string using strtok. When I initialized the string in the code itself it works as I expected.
But when I get the input from the user, it prints only the first number.
what is the reason for this?I need to reverse the 5 digit number input by the user in C. Code has no syntax error (no error squiggles) but still code doesn't runThere might be some error in the logic used by me. Could someone please point that out to me?
as scanf must be passed a pointer to the object where the converted value is to be stored.
Your calculation can be simplified by using % like
As you can see the calculation is the same every time so you could use a loop.
The loop above only works when the input has exactly 5 digits. A more generic solution could be:
Complex printf() I'm creating a simple menu and I've got stucked.
I have a very repetitive code, in fact, the only thing that changes is the parameter of a printf(), so I want to create a function to call it. The problem comes when I need to take the arguments. I tried to read about variable arguments using header <stdarg.h>, and certainly I don't understant it, so I would just try to skip it. I mean, I would just need to pass the arguments coming directly to printf() with something like
if somebody can explain to me in an easy way how to accomplish it, please, because I don't think I need to process the multiple arguments.You actually have to use stdarg.h:
The lst variable stores information about the variable arguments. The macro va_start() is used to initialize it (the second parameter is the last non-variable argument). The macro va_end() is used to free the resources allocated by va_start().
Normally, functions with variable arguments use va_arg() to get each argument, but here we just pass the list to vprintf() and it does that for us.stack in C vs programme variable addresses [duplicate]This question already has answers here:I declared first num1 and second num2 and so on. variables keep according stack then num1 address should be higher than num2 but my output num2 is higher than num1.
What is the reason?
please give an advise.
Is there some kind of sqlite/xml/json/csv database I can use to programmatically generate bindings in another language?alternative to mangling jmp_buf in c for a context switchIn setjmp.h library in linux system jmp_buf is encrypted to decrypt it we use mangle function
I need to save the context and change the stack pointer, base pointer and program counter in jmp_buffer any alternative to this function that I can use. I am trying to build basic thread library can't head around this. I can't use ucontext.h .You might as well roll your own version of setjmp/longjmp; even if you reverse engineered that mess, your result will be more fragile than a proper version.
You will need to have a peek at the calling conventions for your environment, but mainly something like:
This should work in a dated compiler, like gcc2.x as is.  More modern compilers have been, uh, enhanced, to rely on thead local storage(TLS) and the like.  You may have to add bits to your context.
Another enhancement is stack checking, typically layered on TLS.  Even if you disable stack checking, it is possible that libraries you use will rely on it, so you will have to swap the appropriate entries.Truncating ".00" when entering int into float data type in CSo I am learning C and I have a question. Normally, I can find the answers I need online, like most people. However, this question is one I have not been able to find an answer to. I suppose I could be asking it wrong, but I digress.
I have an assignment for a class to create a shipping calculator; I have been able to figure out how to solve the main problem presented, BUT I do not like that when someone enters an integer, there are decimals after the whole number, such as: 100 being output as 100.00.
Is it possible to have a data-type of float such that if a person enters a floating point number, it will have the two decimal places I want, but if they enter an integer, it truncates the ".00" to just an integer?
I wanna have the ability to have 100.50 being entered and displayed as 100.50, for example, but if the user enters 100, the input won't be 100.00.
I am new, so please be nice. Nevertheless, I would appreciate any help or advice.
Thanks!How to return 0 upon EOFI have a program that needs to take input until EOF and because this is an assignment, I am constrained to using scanf. I am doing something like this in the main function:
But if I press ^D, the program goes into an infinite loop instead of exiting with 0 and sometimes I just keep seeing ^D on the terminal. How can I fix this?
Another approach I tried looked something like this:
PS I also tried doing while(x!=EOF) and while (!EOF) for the loop but that doesn't work either. Compare the result returned by scanf to EOF, not the out parameter that receives the typed input value.
In my C program, I use printf to print a formatted string to stdout then readline to get input from user with the ability to move cursor and navigate history. The issue is that if I enter a character then press backspace, the whole line, including the string printed by printf, gets deleted. Is there a way to fix this bad behavior? Should I report this as a bug to readline developers? Or should I print my formatted text to a buffer then use it as a prompt to readline?
If you want a string to appear on the same terminal line as the line you're entering and reading with readline, you should make the string the 'prompt' argument to readline.  This is difficult with the way you have things set up (the prompt printed outside of a function that calls readline), but if you can change that you can fix it:
Checking lengthprintf in C does not giving any outputI wrote a code in C to print the id number (could be combination of both numbers and letters) of the employee. The compiler takes the id number as an input but it is printing nothing. At first, I use 'printf' but it is not working so then I googled to end up with that the output is sometimes buffered for performance reasons in many systems. I got many possible answers in some following threads-
simple c program not printing output
Why does printf not flush after the call unless a newline is in the format string?
However, I tried all of the possibilities (being a beginner, implementation can be wrong), but none worked out for me [given as comments]. I have the code like following. Any help is appreciated.
As it was said in the comment section "a single char can't hold a string of letters".
There were other things here to make a better code, e.g. freeing allocated memory.
Here is code example of how it can be done:
How to include header file in C?I'm new to this website. I want to ask you one question.
Is the lib.h header file can include main.c from parent's parent's directory? Typically, header files have an include guard or a #pragma once directive to ensure that they are not inserted multiple times into a single .c file.
stdio.h is a header file which has the necessary information to include the input/output related functions in our program. Examples: printf, scanf, etc.... If we want to use printf or scanf function in our program, we should include the stdio.h header file in our source code.Passing structs into a method and making assingments with scanf_SI am brand new to C and have begun a small project to practice and refine some basics.
Right now, I am having trouble assigning the name variable in stuct player. Specifically, I want to do this by passing the player struct into the method titleScreen and make the assignment there.
I want to do this with scanf, but nothing seems to work and I have hit a wall.
Is there something wrong with the way I have passed the pointer?
Does this cause padding to be added in any situation?While it would be unusual, the implementation itself decides whether or not that structure has padding, not the standard (C11 in this case).
The standard states, in 6.7.2.1 Structure and union specifiers (only relevant paragraphs shown):
14/ Each non-bit-field member of a structure or union object is aligned in an implementation defined manner appropriate to its type.
15/ Within a structure object, the non-bit-field members and the units in which bit-fields reside have addresses that increase in the order in which they are declared. A pointer to a structure object, suitably converted, points to its initial member (or if that member is a bit-field, then to the unit in which it resides), and vice versa. There may be unnamed padding within a structure object, but not at its beginning.
17/ There may be unnamed padding at the end of a structure or union.
the implementation defines alignment and therefore padding (from 14).
no padding at start but padding allowed between members (from 15). There is nothing about only being allowed to pad for reasons of alignment, padding is allowed for any purpose, including "whims of the implementer". The only requirement is that the addresses increase with subsequent members, not that they increase by the smallest possible amount subject to their size and alignment.
padding allowed after last member (from 17), again for any reason.Your struct does not have any padding.
But, if you add something after c that needs alignment (e.g. int), you will get padding.
Without padding, dummy should be 3, which it is.
Without padding dummy2 should be 7, but it is 8. So, the second struct adds a pad char to align foo to a 4 byte boundary.GTK: hide and show a widget in a GtkBox show's the widget underneath the GtkBoxedit: The problem described here seems to be theme related. I'm using Greybird from XUbuntu here.
In my program you can click a button to create more buttons in a vertical GtkBox. If the buttons exceed the visible space a GtkScrollbar will be shown:
When the GtkScrollbar is shown for the first time, it dos not show on the side, as it should be; It's shown below the buttons:
This is weird, because the scrollbar is actually inside a horizontal GtkBox in a cell next to those buttons.
In this state, the buttons are not clickable anymore until either of of the following happens:
I don't use GtkScrolledWindow's internal scrollbars, because they will overlay the content. I don't want that. Therefore I'm making this implementation.
I could imagine this to be a bug within GTK. Even if it is, is there a way to work around it?
It looks like this behavior is triggered depending on the theme. Checking that the input is int while also exiting with 0 status in cI am trying to get input from the user/ file redirection and need to return an error when the input is not an integer. For this, I am using
but this means that I can not use it to terminate the program when I run out of inputs. How can I accomplish both since getting the number of successful scans is the only way I know to figure out if the input has ended.I don't understand the for loop with this prime number checkerI don't understand how this checks for prime numbers:
Where did these assignments/comparisons come from? The code is basically checking all the factors of the input number, including 1 and the number itself. Primes are by definition any number that has no other factor other than itself and 1, so if the 'p' factor term equals 2 it means the number is prime because the increment has happened at 1 and the number only.How does GDK_POINTER_MOTION_HINT_MASK work?I'm trying to understand this code example I found in the GTK+ 3.0 reference manual:
Basically it's a simple scribble pad that demonstrates handling mouse events and drawing with Cairo. The manual says that normally a GDK_MOTION_NOTIFY event is received by a widget every time the mouse moves, but if you set the GDK_POINTER_MOTION_HINT_MASK flag you will only receive a single event until gdk_window_get_pointer is called. After tinkering with the example that seems to just not be the case.
Now when I run the program, the pointer coordinates are being printed on the terminal every time I move the mouse. This would imply that da is still receiving motion events even though I have that flag set and I'm not asking for more events. Am I just not understanding how GDK_POINTER_MOTION_HINT_MASK works?
I should note that I am using GTK+ 3.24, and this manual I found is for GTK+ 3.0. I'm not sure this is even the official manual. When I compile the example I get a warning stating gdk_window_get_pointer is deprecated and I should be using gdk_window_get_device_position instead. I go to the API Reference at gtk.org and it's just straight up not complete. I can't find either of those functions nor can I find various other functions and structs mentioned elsewhere. Very frustrating!So it just took me some time to figure out how to navigate the API Reference for the version I'm using, but i discovered that GDK_POINTER_MOTION_HINT_MASK had been deprecated since GTK version 3.8 where motion events were compressed by default (meaning only the latest motion event is received while the rest are discarded).How can I use gtk_message_dialog_new() without triggering "GtkDialog mapped without a transient parent."Here is the code:
Below is my code; I've checked for what's causing the problem but even after spending hours I'm not able to figure it out. I've used pointer *argv[1] as without it the code seems to break, I haven't studied it much in depth. I saw couple of related questions and everyone seems to be suggesting to iterate argv[1] as separate for loop for checking if it's numeric, tried that as well but code doesn't compile altogether. This is the closest I've came to solving this, I'm a beginner and would really appreciate any help regarding this.
These are the errors showing, though the answer matches expected output
How does this function work the other way? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.If we wanted to print '?' the same number as the user input, it will only print when numbers are larger than 10 while it shouldn't. Because n is not smaller than 10... the loop shouldn't run.
So how is that possible?...it will only print when numbers are larger than 10 while it shouldn't.
Why shouldn't it? The first loop gets an int from the user, if the user inputs a value that is smaller than 10, it will continue asking the user for a new input, if the user inputs a value larger than or equal to 10 the while loop will end and n will have the input value, then the for loop is executed, if n is, for example, 15, it will run 15 times and consequently print ? 15 times.The While continue loop until n Is less than 10. Only when n Is 10 or more your program exit from while loop and print.Recoding the memset in CI am a beginner in C . I try to recode the memset. My friend helped me in the code.
I have severals question about this code.
It is not a declaration only assignment. b is the void pointer and we need to fill memory with the unsignd char value. So we assign the same reference to the pointer to unsigned char.segfault when calling fread()I just want to get read the first 8 bytes of a file and compared it with a 8 byte array to check if they are equal. But I am using fread() the system said I have a segmentation fault. I used print "HIHI" to see where it happened and before the fread line it shows but disappear when I put the printf after the freadline. Also, I tried to change the size of the buffer but the segfault still exist, can someone help? Here is my code.
Removing trailing newline character from fgets() inputI am trying to get some data from the user and send it to another function in gcc. The code is something like this.
However, I find that it has a newline \n character in the end. So if I enter John it ends up sending John\n. How do I remove that \n and send a proper string.Perhaps the simplest solution uses one of my favorite little-known functions, strcspn():
The function counts the number of characters until it hits a '\r' or a '\n' (in other words, it finds the first '\r' or '\n'). If it doesn't hit anything, it stops at the '\0' (returning the length of the string).
Note that this works fine even if there is no newline, because strcspn stops at a '\0'. In that case, the entire line is simply replacing '\0' with '\0'.The elegant way:
Note that the strtok function doesn't work as expected if the user enters an empty string (i.e. presses only Enter). It leaves the \n character intact.
Now use buffer and len as needed.
This method has the side benefit of a len value for subsequent code.  It can be easily faster than strchr(Name, '\n').  Ref  YMMV, but both methods work.
buffer, from the original fgets() will not contain in "\n" under some circumstances:
A) The line was too long for buffer so only char preceding the '\n' is saved in buffer. The unread characters remain in the stream.
B) The last line in the file did not end with a '\n'.  
If input has embedded null characters '\0' in it somewhere, the length reported by strlen() will not include the '\n' location.
Determine the length of the string inside NAME by using strlen(), header string.h. Note that strlen() does not count the terminating \0.
Look if the string begins with or only includes one \0 character (empty string). In this case sl would be 0 since strlen() as I said above doesn´t count the \0 and stops at the first occurrence of it: 
Check if the last character of the proper string is a newline character '\n'.  If this is the case, replace \n with a \0. Note that index counts start at 0 so we will need to do NAME[sl - 1]:
Note if you only pressed Enter at the fgets() string request (the string content was only consisted of a newline character) the string in NAME will be an empty string thereafter.
If you rather like a function for use this technique by handling fgets output strings in general without retyping each and every time, here is fgets_newline_kill:
Note that this method does not work if the input string has embedded \0s in it. If that would be the case strlen() would only return the amount of characters until the first \0. But this isn´t quite a common approach, since the most string-reading functions usually stop at the first \0 and take the string until that null character.
Aside from the question on its own. Try to avoid double negations that make your code unclearer: if (!(fgets(Name, sizeof Name, stdin) != NULL) {}. You can simply do if (fgets(Name, sizeof Name, stdin) == NULL) {}.If using getline is an option - Not neglecting its security issues and if you wish to brace pointers - you can avoid string functions as the getline returns the number of characters. Something like below
Note that this particular approach will leave the newline unread, so you may want to use a format string like "%255[^\n]%*c" to discard it (eg, sprintf(fmt, "%%%zd[^\n]%%*c", sizeof Name - 1);), or perhaps follow the scanf with a getchar().Tim Čas one liner is amazing for strings obtained by a call to fgets, because you know they contain a single newline at the end. 
If you are in a different context and want to handle strings that may contain more than one newline, you might be looking for strrspn. It is not POSIX, meaning you will not find it on all Unices. I wrote one for my own needs.
The function below is a part of string processing library I am maintaining on Github. It removes and unwanted characters from a string, exactly what you want
You should give it a try. This code basically loop through the string until it finds the '\n'. When it's found the '\n' will be replaced by the null character terminator '\0'
Note that you are comparing characters and not strings in this line, then there's no need to use strcmp():
since you will be using single quotes and not double quotes. Here's a link about single vs double quotes if you want to know morehow do I store all return data from strsep into an array in C? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.I used strsep to split my string. So my string will look like p,10,something. However I don't want the token to return one object each time, I want it returns p,10, and something in an array how should I do this?Is it possible to use user-input to set the value of a macro?I'm new to c, and I'm wondering if it's possible to somehow set the definition of a macro using user-input in some sort of initialization stage of a code?Get length of any function? [duplicate]This question already has answers here:Assuming there's some function in my program or any linked library to it, is there a way to get the length of the function in bytes? By the length I mean the size of the whole code inside the function, from the start to the very end (functions branch out, so the end would be e.g. last 'ret' instruction, or something like that). Is there a simple way to do that, maybe some API functions or is it too much non cost-effective to create such a function?There are probably tools to dump the contents of an object file, and then you can parse the output of this dump, and there is a chance that you can find out more or less reliably what the length of s function is. Adding data that is used by the function is more tricky. Or adding things like lambdas / closures that should probably be counted towards the length of the function.Invocation of structure member info display function spits garbled charactersI created a structure that goes as follows:
Accompanying the structure definition are two functions that accept and display the details of the structure's members respectively:
The declaration of a structure object in the main() segment is relatively straightforward and goes as follows:
While the compiler doesn't spit any errors as such, and neither does the invocation of the function that accepts information for the structure's members, invocation of the show_details() function spits out nothing but garbled, gibberish characters. What is causing this anomaly?Do not use gets. Use fgets instead.  fgets(d1.name, sizeof(d1.name), stdin);
You need to pass the reference to the struct otherwise you will work on the local copy of the structure. You can also return the structure.
BTW I hope that you know that height can be only entered in full meters. No fractionsIn C, arguments of a function are passed by value, not by reference, meaning that the argument you pass will be copied. So what you are dealing with inside your function is a copy of your object, not the actual object. In order to refer to the actual object, you need to pass a reference.
Also, avoid using scanf() (and gets()) to read input. Use fgets() instead.
Arithmetic with bigint in gmp `pointer being realloc'd was not allocated`Following a previous question, I'm trying to do bigint arithmetic with gmp with the following main.c
What should I do to avoid the error?You forgot to initialize your integers.
As mpz_init initalizes and assignes zero to the integer so you do not need to mpz_set_ui(a,0); /* etc etc*/
You can also use  mpz_inits(a, b, c, NULL);Blurring an image.bmp with "box blur" technique in CSo in this project , I need to take an image.bmp file and blur it using "box blur".
The instructions for Box Blurring as follows:
For this problem, we’ll use the “box blur,” which works by taking each pixel and, for each color value, giving it a new value by averaging the color values of neighboring pixels.
(example) The new value of each pixel would be the average of the values of all of the pixels that are within 1 row and column of the original pixel (forming a 3x3 box). For example, each of the color values for pixel 6 would be obtained by averaging the original color values of pixels 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, and 11 (note that pixel 6 itself is included in the average). Likewise, the color values for pixel 11 would be be obtained by averaging the color values of pixels 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 16.
For a pixel along the edge or corner, like pixel 15, we would still look for all pixels within 1 row and column: in this case, pixels 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, and 16.
Now I know my code is a bit long and amateur,but it is only because I am an amateur but I have come this far without any help:
Now at this point, program somewhat blurs the image, but not for the right amount. When I test it via cs50's pre-set test cases, my RGB ratios are correct for corner indexes, but off for all the others. Why that might be happening?Why can we use this approach to solve transpose matrix problem for larger array? [closed]Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.I'm using this approach to solve this problem ,but for larger array it is giving wrong answer. Can someone suggest me the solution to this.
Linker error on a C project using EclipseI want create a project for the STM32F217IG microcontroller.
So I installed Eclipse and the GNU for ARM embedded GCC cross compiler. I don't think it is the Code Sourcery one. I used it, because it supports floating point and Code Sourcery does not.
Once I did that I tried creating a really small project with only two sources files: test.c and main.c with only the following Code written in both of them:
I changed the line command in the project property to replace GCC with arm-none-eabi-gcc and then tried to compile the project.
I did not create any makefile myself; I used the automatic creation in Eclipse.
The building seems to be fine, but when it comes to the linker I got the following errors in the console:
I looked on the Internet, and I found that it may be a syscall problem. But I don't know how I add this library to my project on Linux.
Is that really the problem? If yes, how do I fix it? And if not, where is the error coming from?
As someone suggested, I tried "linking" the C runtime library. In Eclipse it seems I have two solutions to do it:
First on the project properties → C/C++ → Build → Settings → Cross linker → libraries. I just add the letter c and then the error does not change, but there is -lc at the end of the command line:
But I don't know if it is really means to add the C runtime library.
Second, I added the libc.a library in the project properties → C/C++ general → Path and symbols → Libraries, and here is what I get (completely different):
Then it still does not work, but is it the good way to search on?
I got the errors only in debug mode. If I am in release mode everything is okay, and I don't have any errors (except if I add the libc.a then I think this is not the best thing to do). Does that mean the problem is the .elf file creation?I've looked at the toolkit you linked, just to read the following in the readme.txt:
This toolchain is built and optimized for Cortex-R/M bare metal development.
In other words, this toolchain is specifically configured for embedded systems, perhaps with no operating system running at all. In such case, there's no system to provide e.g. standard output where printf() is supposed to write, there's no file system, etc. - you have to link against some library providing these basic services, if you want to use them.
That said, your toolkit provides librdimon.a library which provides all those basic services. This library is actually a part of libgloss compilation. If you want to link against it, try the following command:
This links fine on my PC, but whether it's what you really want is another story (where do you expect to see printf() output, anyway?).
For you chip you should probably look for a library which redirects the standard output to serial port or provides debug output over JTAG. Alternatively, you can use your custom function e.g. sending debug output to serial console instead of printf() - it's up to you.
If you decide on using printf() I suggest reading libgloss documentation.
Also, I suggest looking around for a toolchain which is specifically bundled for STM32 family. Properly configuring all this basic stuff (C library, linker script, etc.) requires a bit of experience.
Edit: Many embedded systems doesn't really use standard C library, starting pretty much from scratch. If you want to go this way, you should pass -nostdlib to your gcc invocation. Of course, you'll no longer have things like printf() available. 
Edit 2: Another way is to use standard library (newlib, I mean) without libgloss and provide appropriate stubs for things you do not need. You might want to follow this tutorial, where _read and _write is implemented over the serial port, and everything else is stubbed. This is most likely what you really want.I know this is an old question, but I ran into this today when trying to build for an STM32 board. The project I have has some linker scripts (specifically libs.ld). Adding an entry for libnosys.a in this satisfied the linker and I was able to continue.
No errors and output is fine.There also was such a problem with malloc() and free() function calls in the Eclipse project. I have written firmware for an STM32 microcontroller using Eclipse + GNU for ARM embedded GCC cross compiler + STM32CubeMX for microcontroller periphery initialization and linker script making.
When I have added missing strings libg.a ( * )  and libnosys.a ( * ) in the DISCARD section of .ld script, my project was build successfully.I had created an RTOS project using CubeMX and added a printf and had the same issue on linking, while debugging using OpenOCD.
I replaced the printf("Hello ARM World!") with trace_puts("Hello ARM World!"); and had the messages appear in the debug console.