LUMBER JACK question using domino effect to maximize the profitYou are a lumberjack in a roadside forest. Every day you would like to cut down trees of the maximum value in the limited time that you have. We represent a forest as a rectangular grid of dimensions n by n points. Each edge between the neighboring grid points has a length of 1. At the position of each point, there could be a tree. Each tree is described using the following parameters:
We calculate the value of each tree according to the formula: p Â· h Â· d. To cut down the tree, you have to reach it first. You can move only along the edges between the neighboring grid points. To cut down the tree at the position that you occupy you have to select one of four directions (along grid lines) in which the tree will fall. At the beginning of the day, you start in the lower-left corner of the forest, which is located at the point (0,0). You can assume that there is no tree there. If the tree that you cut falls on the other tree, which is lighter than the one that is falling, then this tree will also fall without being cut directly. We say that the tree is heavier if the total weight calculated as c Â· d Â· h is greater than the total weight of the second tree. In this way, one can achieve a domino effect by pushing one tree onto another. We assume that a tree falls on the other when the distance between them is less the height of this tree. Weights of trees do not cumulate - we always take into account only the weight of the tree, which directly fell onto another. If for example tree A falls onto tree B and its weight is greater than weight of tree B then it can push tree B onto another tree C located in the same direction if the distance between B and C is smaller to height of B and, moreover, tree C is lighter than tree B. When comparing trees B and C we do not take into account tree A that lays on tree B. Moreover, if tree B is not lighter than tree A then it blocks tree A and it will not have a chance to fall onto tree C.
Calculate the biggest profit that you can reach during t time units and provide a corresponding sequence of movements. Assume that the walk between the two neighboring grid points takes 1 unit of time, and cutting the tree takes d units of time.
The first line of input contains three integers: 0 < t <= 5,000 representing the time limit for the lumberjack, 0 < n <= 1,000 represending the size of the grid, and 0 < k <= 10,000 denoting the number of trees. In the following k lines there is a description of consequtive trees consisting of six integer numbers 0 <= x, y < n, 0 < h, d <= 20, 0 < c, p <= 500 representing the position of the trees on the grid, their height, thickness, weight and value.
On the output specify a list of moves (using move prefix) and cuts (using cut prefix) with the suffix denoting the direction of the action (up, right, down or left), each on a separate line.
For each test case, your program will receive the score equal to the total value of trees that were cut down by the lumberjack. You should maximize this value. For each test with n <= 25, your program should execute below 1 second, for 25 < n <= 100, your program should execute below 10 seconds, and for n > 100 your program should execute below 60 seconds. For each test the available memory is limited to 1 GB.
I am not getting the required output for the given input. I had written the code in which lumber jack is moving from origin and reaching to its defined coordinate , for cutting the next tree I want my lumber jack should starts from the previous coordinate but he is again starting from origin. */
What is an undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error and how do I fix it?What are undefined reference/unresolved external symbol errors? What are common causes and how to fix/prevent them?Compiling a C++ program takes place in several steps, as specified by 2.2 (credits to Keith Thompson for the reference):
The precedence among the syntax rules of translation is specified by the following phases [see footnote].
Physical source file characters are mapped, in an implementation-defined manner, to the basic source character set
(introducing new-line characters for end-of-line indicators) if necessary. [SNIP]
Each instance of a backslash character (\) immediately followed by a new-line character is deleted, splicing physical source lines to
form logical source lines. [SNIP]
The source file is decomposed into preprocessing tokens (2.5) and sequences of white-space characters (including comments). [SNIP]
Preprocessing directives are executed, macro invocations are expanded, and _Pragma unary operator expressions are executed. [SNIP]
Each source character set member in a character literal or a string literal, as well as each escape sequence and universal-character-name
in a character literal or a non-raw string literal, is converted to
the corresponding member of the execution character set; [SNIP]
Adjacent string literal tokens are concatenated.
White-space characters separating tokens are no longer significant. Each preprocessing token is converted into a token. (2.7). The
resulting tokens are syntactically and semantically analyzed and
translated as a translation unit. [SNIP]
Translated translation units and instantiation units are combined as follows: [SNIP]
All external entity references are resolved. Library components are linked to satisfy external references to entities not defined in the
current translation. All such translator output is collected into a
program image which contains information needed for execution in its
execution environment. (emphasis mine)
[footnote] Implementations must behave as if these separate phases occur, although in practice different phases might be folded together.
The specified errors occur during this last stage of compilation, most commonly referred to as linking. It basically means that you compiled a bunch of implementation files into object files or libraries and now you want to get them to work together.
Say you defined symbol a in a.cpp. Now, b.cpp declared that symbol and used it. Before linking, it simply assumes that that symbol was defined somewhere, but it doesn't yet care where. The linking phase is responsible for finding the symbol and correctly linking it to b.cpp (well, actually to the object or library that uses it).
If you're using Microsoft Visual Studio, you'll see that projects generate .lib files. These contain a table of exported symbols, and a table of imported symbols. The imported symbols are resolved against the libraries you link against, and the exported symbols are provided for the libraries that use that .lib (if any).
Failure to link against appropriate libraries/object files or compile implementation files
Declared and undefined variable or function.
Common issues with class-type members
Template implementations not visible.
Symbols were defined in a C program and used in C++ code.
Incorrectly importing/exporting methods/classes across modules/dll. (MSVS specific)
Circular library dependency
Interdependent library order
Multiple source files of the same name
Mistyping or not including the .lib extension when using the #pragma (Microsoft Visual Studio)
Problems with template friends
Inconsistent UNICODE definitions
Missing "extern" in const variable declarations/definitions (C++ only)Class members:
A pure virtual destructor needs an implementation.
Declaring a destructor pure still requires you to define it (unlike a regular function):
This happens because base class destructors are called when the object is destroyed implicitly, so a definition is required.    
virtual methods must either be implemented or defined as pure.
This is similar to non-virtual methods with no definition, with the added reasoning that 
the pure declaration generates a dummy vtable and you might get the linker error without using the function:
Non-virtual class members Some members need to be defined even if not used explicitly:
The implementation can be inline, in the class definition itself:
If the implementation is outside the class definition, but in a header, the methods have to be marked as inline to prevent a multiple definition.
All used member methods need to be defined if used.
An initializer can be provided for a static const data member of integral or enumeration type within the class definition; however, odr-use of this member will still require a namespace scope definition as described above. C++11 allows initialization inside the class for all static const data members.Failure to link against appropriate libraries/object files or compile implementation files
Commonly, each translation unit will generate an object file that contains the definitions of the symbols defined in that translation unit.
To use those symbols, you have to link against those object files.
Under gcc you would specify all object files that are to be linked together in the command line, or compile the implementation files together.
The libraryName here is just the bare name of the library, without platform-specific additions. So e.g. on Linux library files are usually called libfoo.so but you'd only write -lfoo. On Windows that same file might be called foo.lib, but you'd use the same argument. You might have to add the directory where those files can be found using -L‹directory›. Make sure to not write a space after -l or -L.
For XCode:  Add the User Header Search Paths -> add the Library Search Path -> drag and drop the actual library reference into the project folder.
Under MSVS, files added to a project automatically have their object files linked together and a lib file would be generated (in common usage). To use the symbols in a separate project, you'd
need to include the lib files in the project settings. This is done in the Linker section of the project properties, in Input -> Additional Dependencies. (the path to the lib file should be
added in Linker -> General -> Additional Library Directories) When using a third-party library that is provided with a lib file, failure to do so usually results in the error.
It can also happen that you forget to add the file to the compilation, in which case the object file won't be generated. In gcc you'd add the files to the command line. In MSVS adding the file to the project will make it compile it automatically (albeit files can, manually, be individually excluded from the build).
In Windows programming, the tell-tale sign that you did not link a necessary library is that the name of the unresolved symbol begins with __imp_. Look up the name of the function in the documentation, and it should say which library you need to use. For example, MSDN puts the information in a box at the bottom of each function in a section called "Library".Declared but did not define a variable or function.
As this is only a declaration, a single definition is needed. A corresponding definition would be:
For example, the following would generate an error:
Similar remarks apply to functions. Declaring a function without defining it leads to the error:
Be careful that the function you implement exactly matches the one you declared. For example, you may have mismatched cv-qualifiers:
Function/variable declared in one namespace, defined in another.
Function/variable declared as class member, defined as global (or vice versa).
Function return type, parameter number and types, and calling convention do not all exactly agree.
The error message from the compiler will often give you the full declaration of the variable or function that was declared but never defined. Compare it closely to the definition you provided. Make sure every detail matches.The order in which interdependent linked libraries are specified is wrong.
The order in which libraries are linked DOES matter if the libraries depend on each other. In general, if library A depends on library B, then libA MUST appear before libB in the linker flags.
So to repeat again, the order DOES matter!what is an "undefined reference/unresolved external symbol"
I'll try to explain what is an "undefined reference/unresolved external symbol".
It has happened because our local_var_name is static, i.e. it is not visible for other modules. 
So, we've seen there is no label for local_var_name, that's why linker hasn't found it. But we are hackers :) and we can fix it. Open src1.s in your text editor and change
we have changed the visibility of local_var_name and set its value to 456789.
So, as a result - an "undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error" happens when the linker cannot find global symbols in the object files.Symbols were defined in a C program and used in C++ code.
The function (or variable) void foo() was defined in a C program and you attempt to use it in a C++ program:
The C++ linker expects names to be mangled, so you have to declare the function as:
Equivalently, instead of being defined in a C program, the function (or variable) void foo() was defined in C++ but with C linkage:
and you attempt to use it in a C++ program with C++ linkage.
If an entire library is included in a header file (and was compiled as C code); the include will need to be as follows;
I was recently able to get rid of an unresolved external error in Visual Studio 2012 just by recompiling the offending file. When I re-built, the error went away. 
This usually happens when two (or more) libraries have a cyclic dependency. Library A attempts to use symbols in B.lib and library B attempts to use symbols from A.lib. Neither exist to start off with. When you attempt to compile A, the link step will fail because it can't find B.lib. A.lib will be generated, but no dll. You then compile B, which will succeed and generate B.lib. Re-compiling A will now work because B.lib is now found.Template implementations not visible.
Unspecialized templates must have their definitions visible to all translation units that use them. That means you can't separate the definition of a template
to an implementation file. If you must separate the implementation, the usual workaround is to have an impl file which you include at the end of the header that
declares the template. To fix this, you must move the definition of X::foo to the header file or some place visible to the translation unit that uses it.
Specialized templates can be implemented in an implementation file and the implementation doesn't have to be visible, but the specialization must be previously declared.
For further explanation and another possible solution (explicit instantiation) see this question and answer.This is one of most confusing error messages that every VC++ programmers have seen time and time again. Let’s make things clarity first.
A. What is symbol?
In short, a symbol is a name. It can be a variable name, a function name, a class name, a typedef name, or anything except those names and signs that belong to C++ language. It is user defined or introduced by a dependency library (another user-defined).
B. What is external?
In VC++, every source file (.cpp,.c,etc.) is considered as a translation unit, the compiler compiles one unit at a time, and generate one object file(.obj) for the current translation unit. (Note that every header file that this source file included will be preprocessed and will be considered as part of this translation unit)Everything within a translation unit is considered as internal, everything else is considered as external. In C++, you may reference an external symbol by using keywords like extern, __declspec (dllimport) and so on.
C. What is “resolve”?
Resolve is a linking-time term. In linking-time, linker attempts to find the external definition for every symbol in object files that cannot find its definition internally. The scope of this searching process including:
All object files that generated in compiling time
All libraries (.lib) that are either explicitly or implicitly
specified as additional dependencies of this building application.
This searching process is called resolve.
D. Finally, why Unresolved External Symbol?
If the linker cannot find the external definition for a symbol that has no definition internally, it reports an Unresolved External Symbol error.
E. Possible causes of LNK2019: Unresolved External Symbol error.
We already know that this error is due to the linker failed to find the definition of external symbols, the possible causes can be sorted as:
Now when you build this code you will get a LNK2019 error complaining that foo is an unresolved symbol. In this case, we know that foo() has its definition in a.cpp, but different from the one we are calling(different return value). This is the case that definition exists.
If we want to call some functions in a library, but the import library is not added into the additional dependency list (set from: Project | Properties | Configuration Properties | Linker | Input | Additional Dependency) of your project setting. Now the linker will report a LNK2019 since the definition does not exist in current searching scope.Incorrectly importing/exporting methods/classes across modules/dll (compiler specific).
MSVS requires you to specify which symbols to export and import using __declspec(dllexport) and __declspec(dllimport).
This dual functionality is usually obtained through the use of a macro:
The macro THIS_MODULE would only be defined in the module that exports the function. That way, the declaration:
and tells the compiler to export the function, as the current module contains its definition. When including the declaration in a different module, it would expand to
and tells the compiler that the definition is in one of the libraries you linked against (also see 1)).
You can similary import/export classes:
You may have missed to choose the right project type with your actual IDE. The IDE may want to bind e.g. Windows Application projects to such entry point function (as specified in the missing reference above), instead of the commonly used int main(int argc, char** argv); signature.
If your IDE supports Plain Console Projects you might want to choose this project type, instead of a windows application project.
Here are case1 and case2 handled in more detail from a real world problem.Also if you're using 3rd party libraries make sure you have the correct 32/64 bit binariesMicrosoft offers a #pragma to reference the correct library at link time;
In addition to the library path including the directory of the library, this should be the full name of the library.Visual Studio NuGet package needs to be updated for new toolset version
I just had this problem trying to link libpng with Visual Studio 2013.  The problem is that the package file only had libraries for Visual Studio 2010 and 2012.
The correct solution is to hope the developer releases an updated package and then upgrade, but it worked for me by hacking in an extra setting for VS2013, pointing at the VS2012 library files.
I edited the package (in the packages folder inside the solution's directory) by finding packagename\build\native\packagename.targets and inside that file, copying all the v110 sections.  I changed the v110 to v120 in the condition fields only being very careful to leave the filename paths all as v110.  This simply allowed Visual Studio 2013 to link to the libraries for 2012, and in this case, it worked.Suppose you have a big project written in c++ which has a thousand of .cpp files and a thousand of .h files.And let's says the project also depends on ten static libraries. Let's says we are on Windows and we build our project in Visual Studio 20xx. When you press Ctrl + F7 Visual Studio to start compiling the whole solution ( suppose we have just one project in the solution )
What's the meaning of compilation ?
Visual Studio search into file .vcxproj and start compiling each file which has the extension .cpp. Order of compilation is undefined.So you must not assume that the file main.cpp is compiled first
If .cpp files depends on   additional .h files  in order to find symbols
that may or may not be defined in the file .cpp
If exists one .cpp file in which the compiler could not find one symbol, a compiler time error raises the message Symbol x could not be found
For each file with extension .cpp is generated an object file .o and also Visual Studio writes the output in a file named ProjectName.Cpp.Clean.txt which contains all object files that must be processed by the linker.
The Second step of compilation is done by Linker.Linker should merge all the object file and build finally the output ( which may be an executable or a library)
Steps In Linking a project 
Parse all the object files and find the definition which was only declared in headers ( eg: The code of one method of a class as is mentioned in previous answers, or event the initialization of a static variable which is member inside a class)
If one symbol could not be found in object files he also is searched in Additional Libraries.For adding a new library to a project Configuration properties -> VC++ Directories  -> Library Directories and here you specified additional folder for searching libraries and Configuration properties -> Linker -> Input for specifying the name of the library. 
-If the Linker could not find the symbol which you write in one .cpp he raises a linker time error which may sound like 
Once the Linker find one symbol he doesn't search in other libraries for it
The order of linking libraries does matter.
If Linker finds an external symbol in one static library he includes the symbol in the output of the project.However, if the library is shared( dynamic ) he doesn't include the code ( symbols ) in output, but  Run-Time crashes may occur
How To Solve this kind of error
Compiler Time Error : 
Make sure you write your c++ project syntactical correct.
Linker Time Error
Define all your symbol which you declare in your header files
Use #pragma once for allowing compiler not to include one header if it was already included in the current .cpp which are compiled
Make sure that your external library doesn't contain symbols that may enter into conflict with other symbols you defined in your header files
When you use the template to make sure you include the definition of each template function in the header file for allowing the compiler to generate appropriate code for any instantiations.A bug in the compiler/IDE
I recently had this problem, and it turned out it was a bug in Visual Studio Express 2013. I had to remove a source file from the project and re-add it to overcome the bug.
Steps to try if you believe it could be a bug in compiler/IDE:
Clean the project (some IDEs have an option to do this, you can also
manually do it by deleting the object files)
Try start a new project,
copying all source code from the original one.Use the linker to help diagnose the error
Most modern linkers include a verbose option that prints out to varying degrees;
Link invocation (command line),
Data on what libraries are included in the link stage,
The location of the libraries, Search paths used.
The MSDN page on the /VERBOSE linker option.Linked .lib file is associated to a .dll
I had the same issue. Say i have projects MyProject and TestProject. I had effectively linked the lib file for MyProject to the TestProject. However, this lib file was produced as the DLL for the MyProject was built. Also, I did not contain source code for all methods in the MyProject, but only access to the DLL's entry points. 
To solve the issue, i built the MyProject as a LIB, and linked TestProject to this .lib file (i copy paste the generated .lib file into the TestProject folder). I can then build again MyProject as a DLL. It is compiling since the lib to which TestProject is linked does contain code for all methods in classes in MyProject.Since people seem to be directed to this question when it comes to linker errors I am going to add this here.
One possible reason for linker errors with GCC 5.2.0 is that a new libstdc++ library ABI is now chosen by default.
If you get linker errors about undefined references to symbols that involve types in the std::__cxx11 namespace or the tag [abi:cxx11] then it probably indicates that you are trying to link together object files that were compiled with different values for the _GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI macro. This commonly happens when linking to a third-party library that was compiled with an older version of GCC. If the third-party library cannot be rebuilt with the new ABI then you will need to recompile your code with the old ABI.
So if you suddenly get linker errors when switching to a GCC after 5.1.0 this would be a thing to check out.Your linkage consumes libraries before the object files that refer to them
You are trying to compile and link your program with the GCC toolchain.
Your linkage specifies all of the necessary libraries and library search paths
If libfoo depends on libbar, then your linkage correctly puts libfoo before libbar.
Your linkage fails with undefined reference to something errors.
But all the undefined somethings are declared in the header files you have
What are you doing wrong?
In the sequence of object files and libraries you want to link to make your
program, you are placing the libraries before the object files that refer to
them. You need to place the libraries after the object files that refer
The explanation
Reading is optional from here on.
By default, a linkage command generated by GCC, on your distro,
consumes the files in the linkage from left to right in
commandline sequence. When it finds that a file refers to something
and does not contain a definition for it, to will search for a definition
in files further to the right. If it eventually finds a definition, the
reference is resolved. If any references remain unresolved at the end,
the linkage fails: the linker does not search backwards.
First, example 1, with static library my_lib.a
A static library is an indexed archive of object files. When the linker
finds -lmy_lib in the linkage sequence and figures out that this refers
to the static library ./libmy_lib.a, it wants to know whether your program
needs any of the object files in libmy_lib.a.
There is only object file in libmy_lib.a, namely my_lib.o, and there's only one thing defined
in my_lib.o, namely the function hw.
The linker will decide that your program needs my_lib.o if and only if it already knows that
your program refers to hw, in one or more of the object files it has already
added to the program, and that none of the object files it has already added
contains a definition for hw.
If that is true, then the linker will extract a copy of my_lib.o from the library and
add it to your program. Then, your program contains a definition for hw, so
its references to hw are resolved.
When you try to link the program like:
the linker has not added eg1.o to the program when it sees
Your program does not yet make any references to hw: it
does not yet make any references at all, because all the references it makes
are in eg1.o.
So the linker does not add my_lib.o to the program and has no further
use for libmy_lib.a.
Next, it finds eg1.o, and adds it to be program. An object file in the
linkage sequence is always added to the program. Now, the program makes
a reference to hw, and does not contain a definition of hw; but
there is nothing left in the linkage sequence that could provide the missing
definition. The reference to hw ends up unresolved, and the linkage fails.
Second, example 2, with shared library libz
A shared library isn't an archive of object files or anything like it. It's
much more like a program that doesn't have a main function and
instead exposes multiple other symbols that it defines, so that other
programs can use them at runtime.
Many Linux distros today configure their GCC toolchain so that its language drivers (gcc,g++,gfortran etc)
instruct the system linker (ld) to link shared libraries on an as-needed basis.
You have got one of those distros.
This means that when the linker finds -lz in the linkage sequence, and figures out that this refers 
to the shared library (say) /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libz.so, it wants to know whether any references that it has added to your program that aren't yet defined have definitions that are exported by libz
If that is true, then the linker will not copy any chunks out of libz and
add them to your program; instead, it will just doctor the code of your program 
so that:-
At runtime, the system program loader will load a copy of libz into the
same process as your program whenever it loads a copy of your program, to run it.
At runtime, whenever your program refers to something that is defined in
libz, that reference uses the definition exported by the copy of libz in
the same process.
Your program wants to refer to just one thing that has a definition exported by libz,
namely the function zlibVersion, which is referred to just once, in eg2.c.
If the linker adds that reference to your program, and then finds the definition
exported by libz, the reference is resolved 
But when you try to link the program like:
the order of events is wrong in just the same way as with example 1.
At the point when the linker finds -lz, there are no references to anything
in the program: they are all in eg2.o, which has not yet been seen. So the
linker decides it has no use for libz. When it reaches eg2.o, adds it to the program,
and then has undefined reference to zlibVersion, the linkage sequence is finished;
that reference is unresolved, and the linkage fails.
Lastly, the pkg-config variation of example 2 has a now obvious explanation.
That's because the distro on which the linkage works is one of the ones that 
does not configure its GCC toolchain to link shared libraries as-needed.
Back in the day, it was normal for unix-like systems to link static and shared 
libraries by different rules. Static libraries in a linkage sequence were linked 
on the as-needed basis explained in example 1, but shared libraries were linked unconditionally.
This behaviour is economical at linktime because the linker doesn't have to ponder
whether a shared library is needed by the program: if it's a shared library,
link it. And most libraries in most linkages are shared libraries. But there are disadvantages too:-
It is uneconomical at runtime, because it can cause shared libraries to be
loaded along with a program even if doesn't need them.
The different linkage rules for static and shared libraries can be confusing
to inexpert programmers, who may not know whether -lfoo in their linkage
is going to resolve to /some/where/libfoo.a or to /some/where/libfoo.so,
and might not understand the difference between shared and static libraries anyway.
This trade-off has led to the schismatic situation today. Some distros have
changed their GCC linkage rules for shared libraries so that the as-needed
principle applies for all libraries. Some distros have stuck with the old way.
Why do I still get this problem even if I compile-and-link at the same time?
surely gcc has to compile eg1.c first, and then link the resulting
object file with libmy_lib.a.  So how can it not know that object file
is needed when it's doing the linking?
Because compiling and linking with a single command does not change the
order of the linkage sequence.
When you run the command above, gcc figures out that you want compilation +
linkage. So behind the scenes, it generates a compilation command, and runs
it, then generates a linkage command, and runs it, as if you had run the
So the linkage fails just as it does if you do run those two commands. The
only difference you notice in the failure is that gcc has generated a
temporary object file in the compile + link case, because you're not telling it
to use eg1.o. We see:
The order in which interdependent linked libraries are specified is wrong
Putting interdependent libraries in the wrong order is just one way
in which you can get files that need definitions of things coming
later in the linkage than the files that provide the definitions. Putting libraries before the 
object files that refer to them is another way of making the same mistake.A wrapper around GNU ld that doesn't support linker scripts
Some .so files are actually GNU ld linker scripts, e.g. libtbb.so file is an ASCII text file with this contents:
Some more complex builds may not support this. For example, if you include -v in the compiler options, you can see that the mainwin gcc wrapper mwdip discards linker script command files in the verbose output list of libraries to link in. A simple work around is to replace the linker script input command file with a copy of the file instead (or a symlink), e.g.
Since it is not implemented, the linker fails to find it and results in the error.
To correct this, you can declare a template operator before the Foo type and then declare as a friend, the appropriate instantiation. The syntax is a little awkward, but is looks as follows;
The above code limits the friendship of the operator to the corresponding instantiation of Foo, i.e. the operator<< <int> instantiation is limited to access the private members of the instantiation of Foo<int>.
Alternatives include;
Allowing the friendship to extend to all instantiations of the templates, as follows;
Note, when the declaration of the operator (or function) only appears in the class, the name is not available for "normal" lookup, only for argument dependent lookup, from cppreference;
A name first declared in a friend declaration within class or class template X becomes a member of the innermost enclosing namespace of X, but is not accessible for lookup (except argument-dependent lookup that considers X) unless a matching declaration at the namespace scope is provided...
There is further reading on template friends at cppreference and the C++ FAQ.
Code listing showing the techniques above.
As a side note to the failing code sample; g++ warns about this as follows
warning: friend declaration 'std::ostream& operator<<(...)' declares a non-template function [-Wnon-template-friend]
note: (if this is not what you intended, make sure the function template has already been declared and add <> after the function name here)When your include paths are different
Linker errors can happen when a header file and its associated shared library (.lib file) go out of sync. Let me explain.
How do linkers work? The linker matches a function declaration (declared in the header) with its definition (in the shared library) by comparing their signatures. You can get a linker error if the linker doesn't find a function definition that matches perfectly.
Is it possible to still get a linker error even though the declaration and the definition seem to match? Yes! They might look the same in source code, but it really depends on what the compiler sees. Essentially you could end up with a situation like this:
Note how even though both the function declarations look identical in source code, but they are really different according to the compiler.
You might ask how one ends up in a situation like that? Include paths of course! If when compiling the shared library, the include path leads to header1.h and you end up using header2.h in your own program, you'll be left scratching your header wondering what happened (pun intended).
An example of how this can happen in the real world is explained below.
Further elaboration with an example
I have two projects: graphics.lib and main.exe. Both projects depend on common_math.h. Suppose the library exports the following function:
 You get a linker error and you have no idea why it's failing. The reason is that the common library uses different versions of the same include common_math.h (I have made it obvious here in the example by including a different path, but it might not always be so obvious. Maybe the include path is different in the compiler settings).
Note in this example, the linker would tell you it couldn't find draw(), when in reality you know it obviously is being exported by the library. You could spend hours scratching your head wondering what went wrong. The thing is, the linker sees a different signature because the parameter types are slightly different. In the example, vec3 is a different type in both projects as far as the compiler is concerned. This could happen because they come from two slightly different include files (maybe the include files come from two different versions of the library).
Debugging the linker
DUMPBIN is your friend, if you are using Visual Studio. I'm sure other compilers have other similar tools.
The process goes like this:
Note the weird mangled name given in the linker error. (eg. draw@graphics@XYZ).
Dump the exported symbols from the library into a text file.
Search for the exported symbol of interest, and notice that the mangled name is different.
Pay attention to why the mangled names ended up different. You would be able to see that the parameter types are different, even though they look the same in the source code.
Reason why they are different. In the example given above, they are different because of different include files.
[1] By project I mean a set of source files that are linked together to produce either a library or an executable.
EDIT 1: Rewrote first section to be easier to understand. Please comment below to let me know if something else needs to be fixed. Thanks!Inconsistent UNICODE definitions
A Windows UNICODE build is built with TCHAR etc. being defined as wchar_t etc. When not building with UNICODE defined as build with TCHAR defined as char etc. These UNICODE and _UNICODE defines affect all the "T" string types; LPTSTR, LPCTSTR and their elk.
Building one library with UNICODE defined and attempting to link it in a project where UNICODE is not defined will result in linker errors since there will be a mismatch in the definition of TCHAR; char vs. wchar_t.
The error usually includes a function a value with a char or wchar_t derived type, these could include std::basic_string<> etc. as well. When browsing through the affected function in the code, there will often be a reference to TCHAR or std::basic_string<TCHAR> etc. This is a tell-tale sign that the code was originally intended for both a UNICODE and a Multi-Byte Character (or "narrow") build.
To correct this, build all the required libraries and projects with a consistent definition of UNICODE (and _UNICODE).
The alternative is applicable as well, if UNICODE is not intended to be used, make sure the defines are not set, and/or the multi-character setting is used in the projects and consistently applied.
Do not forget to be consistent between the "Release" and "Debug" builds as well.Clean and rebuild
A "clean" of the build can remove the "dead wood" that may be left lying around from previous builds, failed builds, incomplete builds and other build system related build issues.
In general the IDE or build will include some form of "clean" function, but this may not be correctly configured (e.g. in a manual makefile) or may fail (e.g. the intermediate or resultant binaries are read-only).
Once the "clean" has completed, verify that the "clean" has succeeded and all the generated intermediate file (e.g. an automated makefile) have been successfully removed.
This process can be seen as a final resort, but is often a good first step; especially if the code related to the error has recently been added (either locally or from the source repository).Missing "extern" in const variable declarations/definitions (C++ only)
For people coming from C it might be a surprise that in C++ global constvariables have internal (or static) linkage. In C this was not the case, as all global variables are implicitly extern (i.e. when the static keyword is missing).
Alternatively one could declare the const variable in file1.cpp with explicit externEven though this is a pretty old questions with multiple accepted answers, I'd like to share how to resolve an obscure "undefined reference to" error.  
Different versions of libraries
I was using an alias to refer to std::filesystem::path: filesystem is in the standard library since C++17 but my program needed to also compile in C++14 so I decided to use a variable alias:  
This way any function contained in file.o and used in main.o that required path_t gave "undefined reference" errors because main.o referred to std::filesystem::path but file.o to std::experimental::filesystem::path.  
To fix this I just needed to change <experimental::filesystem> in file.h to <filesystem>.When linking against shared libraries, make sure that the used symbols are not hidden.
The default behavior of gcc is that all symbols are visible. However, when the translation units are built with option -fvisibility=hidden, only functions/symbols marked with __attribute__ ((visibility ("default"))) are external in the resulting shared object.
You can check whether the symbols your are looking for are external by invoking:
You can also use nm with the option -C to demangle the names (if C++ was used).
Similar to Windows-dlls, one would mark public functions with a define, for example DLL_PUBLIC defined as:
When a translation unit is compiled with -fvisibility=hidden the resulting symbols have still external linkage (shown with upper case symbol type by nm) and can be used for external linkage without problem if the object files become part of a static libraries. The linkage becomes local only when the object files are linked into a shared library.
To find which symbols in an object file are hidden run:
If you specify that gum (similarly, foo::bar) is inline at its definition then
the compiler will inline gum (if it chooses to), by:-
not emitting any unique definition of gum, and therefore
not emitting any symbol by which the linker can refer to the definition of gum, and instead
replacing all calls to gum with inline copies of the compiled body of gum.
As a result, if you define gum inline in a source file gum.cpp, it is
compiled to an object file gum.o in which all calls to gum are inlined
and no symbol is defined by which the linker can refer to gum. When you
link gum.o into a program together with another object file, e.g. main.o
that make references to an external symbol gum, the linker cannot resolve
those references. So the linkage fails:
You can only define gum as inline if the compiler can see its definition in every source file in which gum may be called. That means its inline definition needs to exist in a header file that you include in every source file
you compile in which gum may be called. Do one of two things:
Either don't inline the definitions
Remove the inline specifier from the source file definition:
Everything I try to assign after penny moves 1 down. So nickels gets assigned to dimes, dimes to quarters etcFor some reason I cant figure it out. I tried something as a filler in order to make it assign a dummy. But now there is a blank line after asking for pennies and its being assigned to nickels and quarter value isn't being assigned to anything.
I haven't written C in many years but my first guess is that your \n is being interpreted as an [ENTER] and so you're ending up with one extra return at every point.Just change
as you have 100 in the first case, you are using an int variable (sum), divided by an integer literal, so integer division is used, and you will get the integer quotient of it.
In the second case, you are dividing an integer sum by a double floating point literal (100.0) which means the compiler will use floating point division, giving you the correct answer in totalpennies.  Despite the fact you don't use that value, and the other responses.  This is only the two cents I can contribute to your case. (my pun here)on multi-threaded program printf on console and redirection to file have different orderI'm writing a program that displaying The Dining Philosophers with timestamp. Each number means thread that I created.
Not only is the order different, but performance is also improved.
Why they are different? Is it thread related or just buffer related?When multiple threads are running, the order in which in-program functions get executed (relative to each other) becomes very difficult to predict, since it depends on the OS's scheduler, the number of cores available for use at any particular instant, what other tasks might be running at the same time, the length of each thread's quantum, the phase of the moon, etc etc etc.  Therefore it's very hard to give any general rules about why things get printed in a certain order; you might be able to dive in and analyze a particular system (hardware, OS, compiler version, etc) and figure it out, but anything you discovered would likely not generalize to other systems, so it's hardly worth the effort.
As for performance of console vs file, consider that "printing" something to a console window requires interacting with the window manager process, rendering a large number of pixels, (often) scrolling pixels upwards inside the Terminal window, etc.  That's a fair amount of work compared to simply writing the output data into a buffer in the system's RAM (which, due to filesystem-caching, is usually what "writing to a file" actually consists of as far as user-visible performance is concerned... the actual sending of the data to disk often happens much later on, often well after the program has completed).  Windows' DOS prompt seems particularly slow in this regard (I suspect that its internal workings are sub-optimal for historical/backwards-compatibility reasons).  It's this difference in overhead (as well as the differing nature of the interfaces your program is interacting with behind the scenes) that likely explains the differing behavior.How to remove extra zerosSorry for the basic question, I just startWhile you should not include pictures of code or text input/output rather than just text in your post, the solution to your problem is to use field width specifiers.
Your already using them to specify the overall width, but you can further modify your %24f format specifier to say how many digits you're like after the decimal point: %24.3f.
You'll find a good reference for these format specifiers at cppreference.com.Use a decimal point in your format specifier, followed by a number, to specify the number of digits to be printed after  the decimal point.
I'm not sure I'm passing execlp() correctly because the Sequence.c never outputs anything. The current output is only as shown below but I am not too sure what I am doing incorrectly at the moment. From what I know, after I call execlp(), the forked child should run Sequence instead of another instance of Begin, while the parent waits for the forked child to return before running further code.You should always check for errors. execlp never returns on success, so the "correct" way to call execlp is:
It is important to call _exit after execlp returns, otherwise we have two processes running the same code. Typically we don't want that. We call _exit rather than exit, since exit does some cleanup, including flushing of buffers. The child process has copies of those buffers, and we don't want them to be flushed twice.
If you give us the error message from perror we could maybe help you. Without error messages there is not much we can do. Except the fact that you are trying to call an executable named *.c, makes us suspect that you are trying to execute a source-file. You know that unless you have a c-code interpreter, c-programs must be compiled, don't you?You can try this, when you use execlp you are calling Sequence.c, but I'm not sure because I've always use this form ./Sequence, I'm not calling this with c file, but with object file.I have three input to enter but it is only allowing me to enter two first one and break on the thirdThis program determine the area of the room, which is the product of its length and width.    Whether the room is “too small”, “just right”, or “too large”. If the room is “too small” or “too large”, the difference between the available space and the required space, which should be a positive number.
Confused on how to handle an I/O or blocking function in thread pool design This is more a general design question so I apologize if this is not the correct location.
I am trying to move my current project implementation into a thread pool based design so I can control the order of execution better, and better manage resources.
I am working in C on a Linux/Unix based platform.
My current design at a high level:
Logical execution objects create their own thread and run method
So they own the thread creation and execution
I call these tasks but they are simply a function running on a thread
There are three main type of tasks
I/O based tasks. So reading from a serial port, or a TCP socket, etc
Event based tasks. A new piece of data is added to a queue, thread is notified to wake up and do something
Control type tasks. These run at a predefined rate to either do some safety checks, or execute a function 20 times a second for example.
I would like to move this to a thread pool based design where the threads are allocated up front and work is “added”. But I am stuck on how to implement the I/O based tasks, and the control type tasks. The event based one is easy, on event add task to work queue
The only solutions I can see is
set up signals/alarms through the OS to ‘notify’ me when I/O is available but not sure what thread signals callbacks get called on.
Use OS timers, similar to signals for the control based tasks.
Is there a different approach or implementation technique that I can use? Or is signals/timers the best approach?padding string by adding char to the stringI am trying to create a padding function that adds an underscore to a string. The string length should be 16, and if the string is less than 16 the function should add an underscore until the string length is 16, then return the padding string. If the string is more than 16, the padding function should ignore the characters and returned the first 16 characters of the string.
this code returns a weird result.The space that you allocate for p_text should not depend on the input. It should always be 17.  If len + 1 + 1 < 16, then accessing p_text[i] will lead to undefined behavior for certain values of i that you are using.  You should replace:
We provide ourselves a clean slate to work on by allocating width + 1 bytes using calloc. Using calloc will ensure all bytes are set to 0. When working with strings in C, they need to be null-terminated, so this is very useful.
We copy the contents of src into dest. Using strncpy ensures we don't get a buffer overflow if the source string is longer than the string we want to end up with.
Next we loop from 0, width times. If the character in the destination string at i is a '\0' we'll insert the padding character at that index.
Now, because we used calloc and we allocated an extra byte beyond the character length we needed, the string is already null-terminated, we can simply return its pointer.Convert C "%=" to Basic. Is my code correct? [closed]Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.Is my translation correct? The function is producing incorrect output so I'm double checking my interpretation of the C operator's meaning.
It's now complaining that my post is "mostly code" and won't let me post the edit.
Is it possible to free the returned value of a function (only) called inside of printf (in c)?let's say I'm writing a function like strdup(), or any other function that uses malloc() for that matter. If I only call this function inside of printf() like this :
Is it possible to free the value returned from the function ? If yes, how ? To my knowledge, free() takes as argument a void pointer but how do you get that pointer if you never store de returned value in a variable ?No - you'd need to call it as:
But that's just hideous...Is it possible to free the returned value of a function (only) called inside of printf (in c)?
The compound literal is valid until the end of the block of code.  Then it is "unallocated".  Neither malloc(), free() nor is an explicit named temporary object needed.
you can do the following (save the pointer for later processing, like free()ing it)
A second approach is to design my_function() to operate on a preallocated (I'll explain it later) buffer.
This is a very flexible way of working, once you have mastered it.
Once I wrote a routine that saved a series of allocated pointers to free() (or possibly postprocess the pointers) them all once work had finished.  In order to allow expressions like the one you proposed, the function took a pointer (the allocated pointer) and saved it in a structure, the function returned its argument, so the construction above was possible
It is composed of only a header file and a simple file that contains two functions:
This routine also free()s the allocated memory for saving the pointers, so the postprocessing is done only once, after that all saved pointers are lost, so you have better to free() them in the post-processing routine pointer you pass to it.  A common use it to pass it just free.
The good news with this approach is that it uses dynamic memory only, and the safe only occupies the size of a pointer in the stack.  Another good think is that it was written in 1992, and so it doesn't require any compiler novelties.
This is a test routine that allocates 10 pointers (randomly sized, but with space to store in them the allocated size ---the rest is not used)  and then deallocates them by calling mf_free().
The routines here are copyrighted, but you are free to use them under the BSD license. Running C code in the Applications folder in MacOSx Doesn't Work, so how do C Applications work? [closed]Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.My goal is to make a C Application on my Mac. I can run the a.out (object file) from my desktop, but after changing the ".out" extension to a ".app" extension and place it in the Applications folder, it seems to just open and exit and not run the program. I also do not know much about the ".app" extension, please excuse my ignorance. I have googled the extension and found little info (such as: the app extension leads to other files such as contents and resources).
This leads to my main question; is the ".app" extension a file or folder and how would I add an object file to the resources or contents file of the ".app" extension?It seems like it is a directory with a "structure((thanks to;)unholy sheep)" that is made by "Xcode((thanks to;)Eric Postpischil)".
And thanks to Myst also, I did not clarify and thought it was clear that Applications on MacOSX run through the /Applications directory. That is my bad, application in general can mean a program, yes. It just unfortunately isn't Apple's "Application" and I am sorry that I didn't specify.
I will test this answer fully when I get around to it. Thanks! And to those who wonder why I didn't read the manual... What manual? I could not find one and any link or information on where to find this manual or step by step situation would help! Please and thank you!C - Local variables have the same address and valueI have the following C code:
Why does testB()'s local variable y has the same address as testA()'s local variable x and inherits its value as well? They're not even in the same scope and none of them is a global variable.It's because, at the end of the TestA function call, x goes out of scope and is cleaned up. Afterwards, y is created and assigned the same memory location.
Notice in the following code where the variables have the same scope, they have different addresses:
The lifetime of an object is the portion of program execution during which storage is guaranteed to be reserved for it…
Objects whose identifier is declared inside a function without static or extern have automatic storage duration. The C implementation reserves memory for them automatically and releases the reservation automatically.
The lifetime begins when execution of the block the object is in begins (if it is not a variable length array) or when execution reaches the declaration (if it is a variable length array).
When the body of testA starts executing, memory is reserved for x.
Then the function returns, and the block x is in stops executing. So the memory is no longer reserved for it.
Nobody comes along and cleans up that memory. Your mommy does not clean up after you, in the real world or in the computer.
Somebody might come along and use that memory. They ought to initialize it themself, but, if they do not, they might see what you put into that memory.
When testB starts executing, memory is reserved for y. Due to the way these reservations are organized, it is easy for that to be the same memory that was previously reserved for x. Then the value that appears to be in y might be the same value you put in x.
When you turn on optimization, the compiler might redesign the program and eliminate this effect. Or it might not.Because they can.
The C standard just requires distinct objects that exits at the same time to have distinct (read unequal) addresses. In your case none of variables x and y can be valid at the same time. So the implementation can assign them the same address.There are two totally different answers to this question.
One is that it's the C implementation's job to assign addresses to objects.  It's not your job, and it's arguably not your concern.  Within very broad limits, the C implementation is allowed to assign any address whatsoever to your objects, so you shouldn't be surprised at anything it assigns.  A newly in-scope object happens to have the same address as a different object that just went out of scope?  Well, that's "anything".  Not impossible, not surprising, not your problem.
And along the same lines, the initial value of an uninitialized variable is indeterminate.  You have no idea what it might be; it might be anything.  It just happens to have the same value as a previous variable from a previous function?  Again, that's "anything", and it's not impossible, not surprising, not your problem.
Now, I know, that's your not your question.  You're imagining that it's more than a coincidence that the new variable just happens to have the exact same address, and the exact same value, as the previous variable.  You're imagining that it must mean something.
So that's the second answer.
Many C implementations store a function's local variables on a stack.  Each variable's address is typically defined as an offset within a function call's stack frame.  When one function returns, its stack frame is popped off the stack, and when the next function is called, its stack frame will occupy the same, newly-released portion of the stack.  So if the previous and the next function both had the same variable(s) of the same type(s), their offsets with respect to the stack frame will probably be the same.  So if the previous and the next stack frame are at the same spot on the stack, the variables within those stack frames will be at the same addresses, too.
Furthermore, when a function returns, although its stack frame is popped from the stack, that does not mean that anything actually gets cleared.  And when a newly-called function has its stack frame allocated, nothing gets cleared at that point, either.  So if a function has a local variable that's not explicitly initialized, its actual initial value — the value that we said was "indeterminate" — will actually be whatever bit pattern was sitting leftover on the stack, left by the last function whose stack frame was there.  So if the last function had the same variable at the same stack frame offset, you may find that, lo and behold, the next function's same-offset variable will start out containing the same value that the previous function's variable had.
But this is obviously all happenstance and chance, not anything you can ever depend on.  What you heard about local variables not preserving their values (let alone another function's value) is perfectly true.  If you don't want an uninitialized variable like y in function testB starting out containing tantalizingly surprising values, then initialize it to a suitably unsurprising value that means something to testB.Using socket api, how to pass in an extra data structure to a fd in kernel module?I am using a 4.x linux kernel and have a kernel module where I receive socket information when opening up a socket.
In this case, I am making use of UDP and before I transmit my first bit of data using sendto(), I would like to be able to pass in a data structure from my client program into my kernel module. I could then add extra information into my protocol and relate this data to the file descriptor. This is not user data, rather, it's intended to control how my protocol will function.
The data structure I would like to pass in and relate to the socket is something like the following.
I have a feeling ioctl might do something for me as it seems to be able to manipulate the underlying device parameters with a file descriptor.
It would appear I could use arg to pass in my struct some_tag_info_t above? Can anyone comment to this? Any thoughts?Your understanding is correct, you could pass anything to your ioctl() handler from userspace, it's then up to the kernel module to correctly handle whatever command and argument you pass. However, since you are working with sockets and writing your own protocol, it would be more appropriate to implement this functionality through getsockopt(2)/setsockopt(2). The argument to setsockopt(2) can be anything you want. From userspace you would do something like:
I do not know the types of any of the columns before the function is called.  However, it is guaranteed that col1 and col2 will be of the same type (again, that type won't be known until the function is called). It is also guaranteed that col3 and col4 are of the same type as one another, but not necessarily the same as the type of col1 or col2. I am deliberately placing these constraints to avoid the use of anyelement in the answers; the argument types and the return type is unknown and we cannot use variadic anyelement since all types in the signature are not the same.
I do not know how to do a type-safe comparison of two datums if I don't know their types beforehand.
I am not sure what the return type is for the CREATE FUNCTION.
EDIT - Progressing To A Working Comparison (Is it right? Who knows?)
The comparison now works for at least the two different data types I tested above. I do wonder if my compares should be using SortSupport, but that seems to be even more involved. I also still don't know how to specify an unknown return type (that isn't anyelement) in a CREATE FUNCTION statement.  Maybe the magic word is INTERNAL. Time will tell.  By then, I suspect I might be good friends with Laurenz, but first I must pass the twelve labors.Macro name same as identifier name but in other fileIn file1.c
What happens if I try to link these two files? What happens if I try to link these two files?
You cannot link source files.  You must compile them to object files and link those.  In that case, it is relevant that macros are expanded at compile time, therefore macro identifiers have no link-time representation, and thus they do not interact with identifiers appearing in other translation units.
If instead you combined the two source files into one, in the order given, without #undefining the MAX_N macro between those two statements, then the resulting program would be invalid, and every compiler I know would reject it.Nothing will happen as macro is textually relaced in your file1.c with 99 (of course if you have used it somewhere in this file) during the preprocessing stage and symbol MAX_N from the file1.c will not be present in the object file.Most probably if you link both files (the result of compilations), and in case they are to be linked together, nothing would happen.
A #define preprocessor directive just declares that the identifier to be expanded into the string following it, so evey occurrence in file1.c of MAX_N gets converted into 99 and the compiler will see 99 in every place you have used the identifier.  The important thing is that no preprocessor directive gets compiled at all, they are all expanded before the compiler proper sees the code.  This is the reason, that if you #define MAX_N 99 in the second file, the compiler will get the name of the int MAX_N variable expanded into int 99 and that will be an error, as the compiler expects an identifier (which cannot start with a digit) as the declared object.
Macro expansion has been used frequently for identifier renaming in C.  Or for code offuscation.  I'll illustrate this, let's say you have a variable xmax that represents the width of something, and you compile your code with
then, every occurrence of xmax will be changed into aspofjiasf and the result is that your binary will never have a variable named xmax anymore, but aspofjiasf instead, making the reverse engineering process more difficult.Exception handling for memmove_s() function in C++I am in a situation where I'm using memmove_s() to copy a buffer in a safer way.
So, at first, I just used the memmove_s() and I tested when destination size is greater than the source size and thrown an exception. Then, I put it inside a try/catch and it didn't catch the exception. The reason is that I am using a C code inside a C++ code. So, I found a Microsoft solution using __try/__except block. However, I got the error Cannot use __try in functions that require object unwinding.
I have few doubts related to pipe system call
Does pipe system call creates inode.
How does pipe stores the buffer if the file system is not in use
What is the pseudo code of working of pipe (creating, writing and reading)Memory leak error with dynamic memory allocationWhile compiling an with GCC, the sanitizer is pointing to a memory leak error:
Is the subroutine dup_line missing anything or is there something else wrong with it? Thanks.Returning an array using CI am relatively new to C and I need some help with methods dealing with arrays. Coming from Java programming, I am used to being able to say int [] method()in order to return an array. However, I have found out that with C you have to use pointers for arrays when you return them. Being a new programmer, I really do not understand this at all, even with the many forums I have looked through. 
Basically, I am trying to write a method that returns a char array in C. I will provide the method (lets call it returnArray) with an array. It will create a new array from the previous array and return a pointer to it. I just need some help on how to get this started and how to read the pointer once it is sent out of the array. Any help explaining this is appreciated.
Proposed Code Format for Array Returning Function
I have not tested this yet as my C compiler is not working at the moment but I would like to figure this outYou can't return arrays from functions in C.  You also can't (shouldn't) do this:
returned is created with automatic storage duration and references to it will become invalid once it leaves its declaring scope, i.e., when the function returns.
You will need to dynamically allocate the memory inside of the function or fill a preallocated buffer provided by the caller.
Arrays in C are not first-class objects (that is, an array expression does not retain it's "array-ness" in most contexts).  In C, an expression of type "N-element array of T" will be implicitly converted ("decay") to an expression of type "pointer to T", except when the array expression is an operand of the sizeof or unary & operators, or if the array expression is a string literal being used to initialize another array in a declaration.  
Among other things, this means that you cannot pass an array expression to a function and have it received as an array type; the function actually receives a pointer type:
In the call to foo, the expression str is converted from type char [6] to char *, which is why the first parameter of foo is declared char *a instead of char a[6].  In sizeof str, since the array expression is an operand of the sizeof operator, it's not converted to a pointer type, so you get the number of bytes in the array (6).  
If you're really interested, you can read Dennis Ritchie's The Development of the C Language to understand where this treatment comes from. 
The upshot is that functions cannot return array types, which is fine since array expressions cannot be the target of an assignment, either.  
The safest method is for the caller to define the array, and pass its address and size to the function that's supposed to write to it:
Another method is for the function to allocate the array dynamically and return the pointer and size:
In this case, the caller is responsible for deallocating the array with the free library function.  
Note that dst in the above code is a simple pointer to char, not a pointer to an array of char.  C's pointer and array semantics are such that you can apply the subscript operator [] to either an expression of array type or pointer type; both src[i] and dst[i] will access the i'th element of the array (even though only src has array type).
You can declare a pointer to an N-element array of T and do something similar:
Several drawbacks with the above.  First of all, older versions of C expect SOME_SIZE to be a compile-time constant, meaning that function will only ever work with one array size.  Secondly, you have to dereference the pointer before applying the subscript, which clutters the code.  Pointers to arrays work better when you're dealing with multi-dimensional arrays.I am not saying that this is the best solution or a preferred solution to the given problem. However, it may be useful to remember that functions can return structs. Although functions cannot return arrays, arrays can be wrapped in structs and the function can return the struct thereby carrying the array with it. This works for fixed length arrays.
I invite comments on the strengths and weaknesses of this technique. I have not bothered to do so.How about this deliciously evil implementation?
You can do it using heap memory (through malloc() invocation) like other answers reported here, but you must always manage the memory (use free() function everytime you call your function).
You can also do it with a static array:
In this example you must use static keyword in array definition to set to application-long the array lifetime, so it will not destroyed after return statement.
Of course, in this way  you occupy SIZE bytes in your memory for the entire application life, so size it properly!In your case, you are creating an array on the stack and once you leave the function scope, the array will be deallocated. Instead, create a dynamically allocated array and return a pointer to it.
Your method will return a local stack variable that will fail badly.  To return an array, create one outside the function, pass it by address into the function, then modify it, or create an array on the heap and return that variable.  Both will work, but the first doesn't require any dynamic memory allocation to get it working correctly.
When you do this, the memory should later be freed, by passing the address to free.
There are other options. A routine might return a pointer to an array (or portion of an array) that is part of some existing structure. The caller might pass an array, and the routine merely writes into the array, rather than allocating space for a new array.Efficiently take N lowest bits of GMP mpz_tThere is mpz_class C++ wrapper of GMP type mpz_t. Having mpz_class number what is the most efficient way to take its N lowest bits to create another mpz_class number?
Of course I can do following masking operation
But this masking needs lots of unnecessary bit-and operations and slows down code. Maybe there is some shortcut for that like result = x.take_lo(N);?
Also it is possible that mpz_class is lacking such shortcut, but at least maybe C API has this function? Because any mpz_class can be easily converted without overhead to C type mpz_t through mpz_t c_num = x.get_mpz_t();. So it is fine for me to have .take_lo(N) shortcut within C API only.Although there's no C++ operator overload or function for mpz_class, you can indeed use: mpz_tdiv_r_2exp provided by the C API. e.g.,
There is no need to define a variable length array. You could change the original string pointed to by the pointer initial_text.
Using int for cipher when you [probably] want char.
Because that if does return, the subsequent else if check is no longer needed.
"hardwiring" decimal values (e.g. 65 for 'A').
Using strlen in the condition expression in a for loop. This increases the running time of the loop from O(n) to O(n^2).
This can be replaced with (e.g.) comparing the array element against 0x00.
Using strtol instead of atoi and checking the end can do decode and validation in a single operation.
Don't use string when defining argv -- use char **argv.
Your main lacks a return 0; at the end.
There's a lot of replicated code that can be simplified.
Way to scanf binary number?I am trying to write  a small bit of code where i can scan a binary digit, like 00110011, and get this into an integer as a number. So 00110011 would be 51.
The code i made for this goes like this
This however, give me an output of 48. 00000001 also gives me 48 and so does anything else.
I know whats going wrong, it sees the string of zeros and ones as a single 0 and since its character is 0x30, or 0d48, it outputs 48. I wont to know if there is a way to get around this adn scan this in as the binary equivelent.Your code does not work at all:
you scan up to 8 characters plus a null terminator, passing the address of a single byte variable: this has undefined behavior.
Furthermore, there is no standard conversion specifier for binary encoding in scanf(). Reading a string is a good approach, but you should pass a larger buffer and use a loop to convert to binary:
You can also use strtoul() to convert a number expressed as a string of binary digits (or in any other base up to 36):
Note however that the behavior of strtoul() will differ from the first code: strtoul() will return ULONG_MAX on overflow, whereas the first example would just compute the low order bits of the binary string.I found this simple function that should be easy to understand and it does the trick. Its a algorithm that follows how you would naturally do it in real life with a pen and paper however you're gonna need -lm when you compile it(the gcc command) to include the math library, however you can get around the pow() and include problems if you just do a for loop.
How to compare between struct variables' values in c programmingI'm trying to make a simple program which asks for the user to input a name, email and password as a part of signing up, then make him enter the email and password again to log in.
The whole thing works just fine until it reaches the login part, where even when I enter the same "email" and "pass" (in my case I just type gg in literally both of them) the output is always "Wrong passord". And if I put the if statement to check the emails above the if statement to check the passwords, it immediately changes to permanent "Invalid Email" where the program will continuously ask me to input what should be the correct "email" and "password". Is there anything that I'm doing wrong here?Use strcmp. Substitute all your statements:
You may find a usefull reference for strcmp here. Suggestion: avoid using the comand goto. Prefer using functions, it make your code simpler to understand :).fopen multiple times in append modeI have multiple threads attempting to log to the same file.
Each thread has a FILE * that points to the file.  The FILE *s were opened in append ('a') mode and are using line buffering.
Opening multiple FILE * to the same file within the same process is implementation defined according to ANSI C.
Would anyone happen to know the implementation specific behaviour for MacOS, FreeBSD and Linux, specifically whether each FILE * will have its own line buffer, and whether there's any chance of lost or interleaved writes.MacOS, FreeBSD and Linux are all POSIX systems. As such each FILE* will have its own user-space buffer (or none if you disable it), and once that buffer is flushed it will be written to the underlying file descriptor. POSIX guarantees that append opened file descriptor writes are atomic, thus no data will be lost. As long as your data isn't split across multiple flushes it won't interleave with each other either.LeakSanitizer: detected memory leaksCompiling with GCC-11 (-fsanitize=address) is returning the following error:
I have gone over the different components but I just cannot pinpoint which is causing the memory leak. Any suggestion on what to try would be welcomed.
I'm still missing something.Error no member named 'reqevents'; did you mean 'events' when building Redis on AIXI'm upgrading from Redis 6.0.13 to 6.2.5 on AIX.
I checked the eventLoop struct, and it does indeed contain events, but I see the build failing because it's trying to access reqevents. I can't find reqevents anywhere in the project (with grep -R 'reqevents' .)
This error only happens on AIX 7.1 - Linux and macOS both work fine.
Do you know why req would be prepended to the struct members on AIX, and how I might solve the error?C programming: Menu program switch conditions not being executed following do while loopC programming: Menu program switch conditions not being executed following do while loop
I have created a few test conditions for a menu, I have been unable to get any of the test printf switch cases to print anything. What am I doing wrong? Do i need to move the switch statement to a different section?
What is an undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error and how do I fix it?What are undefined reference/unresolved external symbol errors? What are common causes and how to fix/prevent them?Compiling a C++ program takes place in several steps, as specified by 2.2 (credits to Keith Thompson for the reference):
The precedence among the syntax rules of translation is specified by the following phases [see footnote].
Physical source file characters are mapped, in an implementation-defined manner, to the basic source character set
Each instance of a backslash character (\) immediately followed by a new-line character is deleted, splicing physical source lines to
form logical source lines. [SNIP]
The source file is decomposed into preprocessing tokens (2.5) and sequences of white-space characters (including comments). [SNIP]
Preprocessing directives are executed, macro invocations are expanded, and _Pragma unary operator expressions are executed. [SNIP]
Each source character set member in a character literal or a string literal, as well as each escape sequence and universal-character-name
in a character literal or a non-raw string literal, is converted to
the corresponding member of the execution character set; [SNIP]
Adjacent string literal tokens are concatenated.
White-space characters separating tokens are no longer significant. Each preprocessing token is converted into a token. (2.7). The
resulting tokens are syntactically and semantically analyzed and
translated as a translation unit. [SNIP]
Translated translation units and instantiation units are combined as follows: [SNIP]
All external entity references are resolved. Library components are linked to satisfy external references to entities not defined in the
current translation. All such translator output is collected into a
program image which contains information needed for execution in its
execution environment. (emphasis mine)
[footnote] Implementations must behave as if these separate phases occur, although in practice different phases might be folded together.
The specified errors occur during this last stage of compilation, most commonly referred to as linking. It basically means that you compiled a bunch of implementation files into object files or libraries and now you want to get them to work together.
Say you defined symbol a in a.cpp. Now, b.cpp declared that symbol and used it. Before linking, it simply assumes that that symbol was defined somewhere, but it doesn't yet care where. The linking phase is responsible for finding the symbol and correctly linking it to b.cpp (well, actually to the object or library that uses it).
If you're using Microsoft Visual Studio, you'll see that projects generate .lib files. These contain a table of exported symbols, and a table of imported symbols. The imported symbols are resolved against the libraries you link against, and the exported symbols are provided for the libraries that use that .lib (if any).
Similar mechanisms exist for other compilers/ platforms.
Common error messages are error LNK2001, error LNK1120, error LNK2019 for Microsoft Visual Studio and undefined reference to symbolName for GCC.
This happens because base class destructors are called when the object is destroyed implicitly, so a definition is required.    
virtual methods must either be implemented or defined as pure.
This is similar to non-virtual methods with no definition, with the added reasoning that 
the pure declaration generates a dummy vtable and you might get the linker error without using the function:
If the implementation is outside the class definition, but in a header, the methods have to be marked as inline to prevent a multiple definition.
All used member methods need to be defined if used.
A common mistake is forgetting to qualify the name:
An initializer can be provided for a static const data member of integral or enumeration type within the class definition; however, odr-use of this member will still require a namespace scope definition as described above. C++11 allows initialization inside the class for all static const data members.Failure to link against appropriate libraries/object files or compile implementation files
Commonly, each translation unit will generate an object file that contains the definitions of the symbols defined in that translation unit.
To use those symbols, you have to link against those object files.
Under gcc you would specify all object files that are to be linked together in the command line, or compile the implementation files together.
The libraryName here is just the bare name of the library, without platform-specific additions. So e.g. on Linux library files are usually called libfoo.so but you'd only write -lfoo. On Windows that same file might be called foo.lib, but you'd use the same argument. You might have to add the directory where those files can be found using -L‹directory›. Make sure to not write a space after -l or -L.
For XCode:  Add the User Header Search Paths -> add the Library Search Path -> drag and drop the actual library reference into the project folder.
Under MSVS, files added to a project automatically have their object files linked together and a lib file would be generated (in common usage). To use the symbols in a separate project, you'd
need to include the lib files in the project settings. This is done in the Linker section of the project properties, in Input -> Additional Dependencies. (the path to the lib file should be
added in Linker -> General -> Additional Library Directories) When using a third-party library that is provided with a lib file, failure to do so usually results in the error.
It can also happen that you forget to add the file to the compilation, in which case the object file won't be generated. In gcc you'd add the files to the command line. In MSVS adding the file to the project will make it compile it automatically (albeit files can, manually, be individually excluded from the build).
In Windows programming, the tell-tale sign that you did not link a necessary library is that the name of the unresolved symbol begins with __imp_. Look up the name of the function in the documentation, and it should say which library you need to use. For example, MSDN puts the information in a box at the bottom of each function in a section called "Library".Declared but did not define a variable or function.
Be careful that the function you implement exactly matches the one you declared. For example, you may have mismatched cv-qualifiers:
The error message from the compiler will often give you the full declaration of the variable or function that was declared but never defined. Compare it closely to the definition you provided. Make sure every detail matches.The order in which interdependent linked libraries are specified is wrong.
The order in which libraries are linked DOES matter if the libraries depend on each other. In general, if library A depends on library B, then libA MUST appear before libB in the linker flags.
So to repeat again, the order DOES matter!what is an "undefined reference/unresolved external symbol"
I'll try to explain what is an "undefined reference/unresolved external symbol".
note: i use g++ and Linux and all examples is for it 
So, we've seen there is no label for local_var_name, that's why linker hasn't found it. But we are hackers :) and we can fix it. Open src1.s in your text editor and change
So, as a result - an "undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error" happens when the linker cannot find global symbols in the object files.Symbols were defined in a C program and used in C++ code.
The function (or variable) void foo() was defined in a C program and you attempt to use it in a C++ program:
I was recently able to get rid of an unresolved external error in Visual Studio 2012 just by recompiling the offending file. When I re-built, the error went away. 
This usually happens when two (or more) libraries have a cyclic dependency. Library A attempts to use symbols in B.lib and library B attempts to use symbols from A.lib. Neither exist to start off with. When you attempt to compile A, the link step will fail because it can't find B.lib. A.lib will be generated, but no dll. You then compile B, which will succeed and generate B.lib. Re-compiling A will now work because B.lib is now found.Template implementations not visible.
Unspecialized templates must have their definitions visible to all translation units that use them. That means you can't separate the definition of a template
to an implementation file. If you must separate the implementation, the usual workaround is to have an impl file which you include at the end of the header that
declares the template. A common situation is:
To fix this, you must move the definition of X::foo to the header file or some place visible to the translation unit that uses it.
Specialized templates can be implemented in an implementation file and the implementation doesn't have to be visible, but the specialization must be previously declared.
For further explanation and another possible solution (explicit instantiation) see this question and answer.This is one of most confusing error messages that every VC++ programmers have seen time and time again. Let’s make things clarity first.
A. What is symbol?
In short, a symbol is a name. It can be a variable name, a function name, a class name, a typedef name, or anything except those names and signs that belong to C++ language. It is user defined or introduced by a dependency library (another user-defined).
B. What is external?
In VC++, every source file (.cpp,.c,etc.) is considered as a translation unit, the compiler compiles one unit at a time, and generate one object file(.obj) for the current translation unit. (Note that every header file that this source file included will be preprocessed and will be considered as part of this translation unit)Everything within a translation unit is considered as internal, everything else is considered as external. In C++, you may reference an external symbol by using keywords like extern, __declspec (dllimport) and so on.
C. What is “resolve”?
Resolve is a linking-time term. In linking-time, linker attempts to find the external definition for every symbol in object files that cannot find its definition internally. The scope of this searching process including:
All object files that generated in compiling time
All libraries (.lib) that are either explicitly or implicitly
specified as additional dependencies of this building application.
This searching process is called resolve.
D. Finally, why Unresolved External Symbol?
If the linker cannot find the external definition for a symbol that has no definition internally, it reports an Unresolved External Symbol error.
E. Possible causes of LNK2019: Unresolved External Symbol error.
We already know that this error is due to the linker failed to find the definition of external symbols, the possible causes can be sorted as:
Now when you build this code you will get a LNK2019 error complaining that foo is an unresolved symbol. In this case, we know that foo() has its definition in a.cpp, but different from the one we are calling(different return value). This is the case that definition exists.
If we want to call some functions in a library, but the import library is not added into the additional dependency list (set from: Project | Properties | Configuration Properties | Linker | Input | Additional Dependency) of your project setting. Now the linker will report a LNK2019 since the definition does not exist in current searching scope.Incorrectly importing/exporting methods/classes across modules/dll (compiler specific).
MSVS requires you to specify which symbols to export and import using __declspec(dllexport) and __declspec(dllimport).
This dual functionality is usually obtained through the use of a macro:
The macro THIS_MODULE would only be defined in the module that exports the function. That way, the declaration:
and tells the compiler to export the function, as the current module contains its definition. When including the declaration in a different module, it would expand to
You may have missed to choose the right project type with your actual IDE. The IDE may want to bind e.g. Windows Application projects to such entry point function (as specified in the missing reference above), instead of the commonly used int main(int argc, char** argv); signature.
If your IDE supports Plain Console Projects you might want to choose this project type, instead of a windows application project.
Here are case1 and case2 handled in more detail from a real world problem.Also if you're using 3rd party libraries make sure you have the correct 32/64 bit binariesMicrosoft offers a #pragma to reference the correct library at link time;
In addition to the library path including the directory of the library, this should be the full name of the library.Visual Studio NuGet package needs to be updated for new toolset version
I just had this problem trying to link libpng with Visual Studio 2013.  The problem is that the package file only had libraries for Visual Studio 2010 and 2012.
The correct solution is to hope the developer releases an updated package and then upgrade, but it worked for me by hacking in an extra setting for VS2013, pointing at the VS2012 library files.
I edited the package (in the packages folder inside the solution's directory) by finding packagename\build\native\packagename.targets and inside that file, copying all the v110 sections.  I changed the v110 to v120 in the condition fields only being very careful to leave the filename paths all as v110.  This simply allowed Visual Studio 2013 to link to the libraries for 2012, and in this case, it worked.Suppose you have a big project written in c++ which has a thousand of .cpp files and a thousand of .h files.And let's says the project also depends on ten static libraries. Let's says we are on Windows and we build our project in Visual Studio 20xx. When you press Ctrl + F7 Visual Studio to start compiling the whole solution ( suppose we have just one project in the solution )
What's the meaning of compilation ?
Visual Studio search into file .vcxproj and start compiling each file which has the extension .cpp. Order of compilation is undefined.So you must not assume that the file main.cpp is compiled first
If .cpp files depends on   additional .h files  in order to find symbols
that may or may not be defined in the file .cpp
If exists one .cpp file in which the compiler could not find one symbol, a compiler time error raises the message Symbol x could not be found
For each file with extension .cpp is generated an object file .o and also Visual Studio writes the output in a file named ProjectName.Cpp.Clean.txt which contains all object files that must be processed by the linker.
The Second step of compilation is done by Linker.Linker should merge all the object file and build finally the output ( which may be an executable or a library)
Steps In Linking a project 
Parse all the object files and find the definition which was only declared in headers ( eg: The code of one method of a class as is mentioned in previous answers, or event the initialization of a static variable which is member inside a class)
If one symbol could not be found in object files he also is searched in Additional Libraries.For adding a new library to a project Configuration properties -> VC++ Directories  -> Library Directories and here you specified additional folder for searching libraries and Configuration properties -> Linker -> Input for specifying the name of the library. 
-If the Linker could not find the symbol which you write in one .cpp he raises a linker time error which may sound like 
error LNK2001: unresolved external symbol "void __cdecl foo(void)" (?foo@@YAXXZ)
Once the Linker find one symbol he doesn't search in other libraries for it
The order of linking libraries does matter.
If Linker finds an external symbol in one static library he includes the symbol in the output of the project.However, if the library is shared( dynamic ) he doesn't include the code ( symbols ) in output, but  Run-Time crashes may occur
How To Solve this kind of error
Define all your symbol which you declare in your header files
Use #pragma once for allowing compiler not to include one header if it was already included in the current .cpp which are compiled
Make sure that your external library doesn't contain symbols that may enter into conflict with other symbols you defined in your header files
When you use the template to make sure you include the definition of each template function in the header file for allowing the compiler to generate appropriate code for any instantiations.A bug in the compiler/IDE
I recently had this problem, and it turned out it was a bug in Visual Studio Express 2013. I had to remove a source file from the project and re-add it to overcome the bug.
Steps to try if you believe it could be a bug in compiler/IDE:
Clean the project (some IDEs have an option to do this, you can also
manually do it by deleting the object files)
Try start a new project,
copying all source code from the original one.Use the linker to help diagnose the error
Most modern linkers include a verbose option that prints out to varying degrees;
Link invocation (command line),
Data on what libraries are included in the link stage,
The location of the libraries,
Search paths used.
For gcc and clang; you would typically add -v -Wl,--verbose or -v -Wl,-v to the command line. More details can be found here;
The MSDN page on the /VERBOSE linker option.Linked .lib file is associated to a .dll
I had the same issue. Say i have projects MyProject and TestProject. I had effectively linked the lib file for MyProject to the TestProject. However, this lib file was produced as the DLL for the MyProject was built. Also, I did not contain source code for all methods in the MyProject, but only access to the DLL's entry points. 
To solve the issue, i built the MyProject as a LIB, and linked TestProject to this .lib file (i copy paste the generated .lib file into the TestProject folder). I can then build again MyProject as a DLL. It is compiling since the lib to which TestProject is linked does contain code for all methods in classes in MyProject.Since people seem to be directed to this question when it comes to linker errors I am going to add this here.
One possible reason for linker errors with GCC 5.2.0 is that a new libstdc++ library ABI is now chosen by default.
If you get linker errors about undefined references to symbols that involve types in the std::__cxx11 namespace or the tag [abi:cxx11] then it probably indicates that you are trying to link together object files that were compiled with different values for the _GLIBCXX_USE_CXX11_ABI macro. This commonly happens when linking to a third-party library that was compiled with an older version of GCC. If the third-party library cannot be rebuilt with the new ABI then you will need to recompile your code with the old ABI.
So if you suddenly get linker errors when switching to a GCC after 5.1.0 this would be a thing to check out.Your linkage consumes libraries before the object files that refer to them
You are trying to compile and link your program with the GCC toolchain.
Your linkage specifies all of the necessary libraries and library search paths
If libfoo depends on libbar, then your linkage correctly puts libfoo before libbar.
Your linkage fails with undefined reference to something errors.
But all the undefined somethings are declared in the header files you have
The explanation
Reading is optional from here on.
By default, a linkage command generated by GCC, on your distro,
consumes the files in the linkage from left to right in
commandline sequence. When it finds that a file refers to something
and does not contain a definition for it, to will search for a definition
in files further to the right. If it eventually finds a definition, the
reference is resolved. If any references remain unresolved at the end,
the linkage fails: the linker does not search backwards.
First, example 1, with static library my_lib.a
A static library is an indexed archive of object files. When the linker
finds -lmy_lib in the linkage sequence and figures out that this refers
to the static library ./libmy_lib.a, it wants to know whether your program
needs any of the object files in libmy_lib.a.
There is only object file in libmy_lib.a, namely my_lib.o, and there's only one thing defined
in my_lib.o, namely the function hw.
The linker will decide that your program needs my_lib.o if and only if it already knows that
your program refers to hw, in one or more of the object files it has already
added to the program, and that none of the object files it has already added
contains a definition for hw.
If that is true, then the linker will extract a copy of my_lib.o from the library and
add it to your program. Then, your program contains a definition for hw, so
its references to hw are resolved.
When you try to link the program like:
the linker has not added eg1.o to the program when it sees
-lmy_lib. Because at that point, it has not seen eg1.o.
Your program does not yet make any references to hw: it
does not yet make any references at all, because all the references it makes
are in eg1.o.
So the linker does not add my_lib.o to the program and has no further
use for libmy_lib.a.
Next, it finds eg1.o, and adds it to be program. An object file in the
linkage sequence is always added to the program. Now, the program makes
a reference to hw, and does not contain a definition of hw; but
there is nothing left in the linkage sequence that could provide the missing
definition. The reference to hw ends up unresolved, and the linkage fails.
Second, example 2, with shared library libz
A shared library isn't an archive of object files or anything like it. It's
much more like a program that doesn't have a main function and
instead exposes multiple other symbols that it defines, so that other
programs can use them at runtime.
Many Linux distros today configure their GCC toolchain so that its language drivers (gcc,g++,gfortran etc)
instruct the system linker (ld) to link shared libraries on an as-needed basis.
You have got one of those distros.
This means that when the linker finds -lz in the linkage sequence, and figures out that this refers 
to the shared library (say) /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libz.so, it wants to know whether any references that it has added to your program that aren't yet defined have definitions that are exported by libz
If that is true, then the linker will not copy any chunks out of libz and
add them to your program; instead, it will just doctor the code of your program 
so that:-
At runtime, the system program loader will load a copy of libz into the
same process as your program whenever it loads a copy of your program, to run it.
At runtime, whenever your program refers to something that is defined in
libz, that reference uses the definition exported by the copy of libz in
the same process.
Your program wants to refer to just one thing that has a definition exported by libz,
namely the function zlibVersion, which is referred to just once, in eg2.c.
If the linker adds that reference to your program, and then finds the definition
exported by libz, the reference is resolved 
But when you try to link the program like:
the order of events is wrong in just the same way as with example 1.
At the point when the linker finds -lz, there are no references to anything
in the program: they are all in eg2.o, which has not yet been seen. So the
linker decides it has no use for libz. When it reaches eg2.o, adds it to the program,
and then has undefined reference to zlibVersion, the linkage sequence is finished;
that reference is unresolved, and the linkage fails.
Lastly, the pkg-config variation of example 2 has a now obvious explanation.
After shell-expansion:
That's because the distro on which the linkage works is one of the ones that 
does not configure its GCC toolchain to link shared libraries as-needed.
Back in the day, it was normal for unix-like systems to link static and shared 
libraries by different rules. Static libraries in a linkage sequence were linked 
on the as-needed basis explained in example 1, but shared libraries were linked unconditionally.
This behaviour is economical at linktime because the linker doesn't have to ponder
whether a shared library is needed by the program: if it's a shared library,
link it. And most libraries in most linkages are shared libraries. But there are disadvantages too:-
It is uneconomical at runtime, because it can cause shared libraries to be
loaded along with a program even if doesn't need them.
The different linkage rules for static and shared libraries can be confusing
to inexpert programmers, who may not know whether -lfoo in their linkage
is going to resolve to /some/where/libfoo.a or to /some/where/libfoo.so,
and might not understand the difference between shared and static libraries
anyway.
This trade-off has led to the schismatic situation today. Some distros have
changed their GCC linkage rules for shared libraries so that the as-needed
principle applies for all libraries. Some distros have stuck with the old
way.
Why do I still get this problem even if I compile-and-link at the same time?
surely gcc has to compile eg1.c first, and then link the resulting
object file with libmy_lib.a.  So how can it not know that object file
is needed when it's doing the linking?
Because compiling and linking with a single command does not change the
order of the linkage sequence.
When you run the command above, gcc figures out that you want compilation +
linkage. So behind the scenes, it generates a compilation command, and runs
it, then generates a linkage command, and runs it, as if you had run the
So the linkage fails just as it does if you do run those two commands. The
only difference you notice in the failure is that gcc has generated a
temporary object file in the compile + link case, because you're not telling it
The order in which interdependent linked libraries are specified is wrong
Putting interdependent libraries in the wrong order is just one way
in which you can get files that need definitions of things coming
later in the linkage than the files that provide the definitions. Putting libraries before the 
object files that refer to them is another way of making the same mistake.A wrapper around GNU ld that doesn't support linker scripts
Some .so files are actually GNU ld linker scripts, e.g. libtbb.so file is an ASCII text file with this contents:
Since it is not implemented, the linker fails to find it and results in the error.
To correct this, you can declare a template operator before the Foo type and then declare as a friend, the appropriate instantiation. The syntax is a little awkward, but is looks as follows;
The above code limits the friendship of the operator to the corresponding instantiation of Foo, i.e. the operator<< <int> instantiation is limited to access the private members of the instantiation of Foo<int>.
Alternatives include;
Allowing the friendship to extend to all instantiations of the templates, as follows;
Note, when the declaration of the operator (or function) only appears in the class, the name is not available for "normal" lookup, only for argument dependent lookup, from cppreference;
A name first declared in a friend declaration within class or class template X becomes a member of the innermost enclosing namespace of X, but is not accessible for lookup (except argument-dependent lookup that considers X) unless a matching declaration at the namespace scope is provided...
There is further reading on template friends at cppreference and the C++ FAQ.
Code listing showing the techniques above.
As a side note to the failing code sample; g++ warns about this as follows
warning: friend declaration 'std::ostream& operator<<(...)' declares a non-template function [-Wnon-template-friend]
note: (if this is not what you intended, make sure the function template has already been declared and add <> after the function name here)When your include paths are different
Linker errors can happen when a header file and its associated shared library (.lib file) go out of sync. Let me explain.
How do linkers work? The linker matches a function declaration (declared in the header) with its definition (in the shared library) by comparing their signatures. You can get a linker error if the linker doesn't find a function definition that matches perfectly.
Is it possible to still get a linker error even though the declaration and the definition seem to match? Yes! They might look the same in source code, but it really depends on what the compiler sees. Essentially you could end up with a situation like this:
Note how even though both the function declarations look identical in source code, but they are really different according to the compiler.
You might ask how one ends up in a situation like that? Include paths of course! If when compiling the shared library, the include path leads to header1.h and you end up using header2.h in your own program, you'll be left scratching your header wondering what happened (pun intended).
An example of how this can happen in the real world is explained below.
Further elaboration with an example
I have two projects: graphics.lib and main.exe. Both projects depend on common_math.h. Suppose the library exports the following function:
You get a linker error and you have no idea why it's failing. The reason is that the common library uses different versions of the same include common_math.h (I have made it obvious here in the example by including a different path, but it might not always be so obvious. Maybe the include path is different in the compiler settings).
Note in this example, the linker would tell you it couldn't find draw(), when in reality you know it obviously is being exported by the library. You could spend hours scratching your head wondering what went wrong. The thing is, the linker sees a different signature because the parameter types are slightly different. In the example, vec3 is a different type in both projects as far as the compiler is concerned. This could happen because they come from two slightly different include files (maybe the include files come from two different versions of the library).
Debugging the linker
DUMPBIN is your friend, if you are using Visual Studio. I'm sure other compilers have other similar tools.
The process goes like this:
Note the weird mangled name given in the linker error. (eg. draw@graphics@XYZ).
Dump the exported symbols from the library into a text file.
Search for the exported symbol of interest, and notice that the mangled name is different.
Pay attention to why the mangled names ended up different. You would be able to see that the parameter types are different, even though they look the same in the source code.
Reason why they are different. In the example given above, they are different because of different include files.
[1] By project I mean a set of source files that are linked together to produce either a library or an executable.
EDIT 1: Rewrote first section to be easier to understand. Please comment below to let me know if something else needs to be fixed. Thanks!Inconsistent UNICODE definitions
A Windows UNICODE build is built with TCHAR etc. being defined as wchar_t etc. When not building with UNICODE defined as build with TCHAR defined as char etc. These UNICODE and _UNICODE defines affect all the "T" string types; LPTSTR, LPCTSTR and their elk.
Building one library with UNICODE defined and attempting to link it in a project where UNICODE is not defined will result in linker errors since there will be a mismatch in the definition of TCHAR; char vs. wchar_t.
The error usually includes a function a value with a char or wchar_t derived type, these could include std::basic_string<> etc. as well. When browsing through the affected function in the code, there will often be a reference to TCHAR or std::basic_string<TCHAR> etc. This is a tell-tale sign that the code was originally intended for both a UNICODE and a Multi-Byte Character (or "narrow") build.
To correct this, build all the required libraries and projects with a consistent definition of UNICODE (and _UNICODE).
The alternative is applicable as well, if UNICODE is not intended to be used, make sure the defines are not set, and/or the multi-character setting is used in the projects and consistently applied.
Do not forget to be consistent between the "Release" and "Debug" builds as well.Clean and rebuild
A "clean" of the build can remove the "dead wood" that may be left lying around from previous builds, failed builds, incomplete builds and other build system related build issues.
In general the IDE or build will include some form of "clean" function, but this may not be correctly configured (e.g. in a manual makefile) or may fail (e.g. the intermediate or resultant binaries are read-only).
Once the "clean" has completed, verify that the "clean" has succeeded and all the generated intermediate file (e.g. an automated makefile) have been successfully removed.
This process can be seen as a final resort, but is often a good first step; especially if the code related to the error has recently been added (either locally or from the source repository).Missing "extern" in const variable declarations/definitions (C++ only)
For people coming from C it might be a surprise that in C++ global constvariables have internal (or static) linkage. In C this was not the case, as all global variables are implicitly extern (i.e. when the static keyword is missing).
Alternatively one could declare the const variable in file1.cpp with explicit externEven though this is a pretty old questions with multiple accepted answers, I'd like to share how to resolve an obscure "undefined reference to" error.  
When a translation unit is compiled with -fvisibility=hidden the resulting symbols have still external linkage (shown with upper case symbol type by nm) and can be used for external linkage without problem if the object files become part of a static libraries. The linkage becomes local only when the object files are linked into a shared library.
If you specify that gum (similarly, foo::bar) is inline at its definition then
the compiler will inline gum (if it chooses to), by:-
not emitting any unique definition of gum, and therefore
not emitting any symbol by which the linker can refer to the definition of gum, and instead
replacing all calls to gum with inline copies of the compiled body of gum.
As a result, if you define gum inline in a source file gum.cpp, it is
compiled to an object file gum.o in which all calls to gum are inlined
and no symbol is defined by which the linker can refer to gum. When you
link gum.o into a program together with another object file, e.g. main.o
that make references to an external symbol gum, the linker cannot resolve
those references. So the linkage fails:
You can only define gum as inline if the compiler can see its definition in every source file in which gum may be called. That means its inline definition needs to exist in a header file that you include in every source file
you compile in which gum may be called. Do one of two things:
Either don't inline the definitions
Remove the inline specifier from the source file definition:
How can I compare the char input in C for seasonsI need to write a program to take input from the user. The first is a char named inputMonth and the second is an int named inputDay. The program needs to compare the input and determine the seasons. The range is:
I was surprised to see the output, it comes out to be  1 10 99 1000 9999 instead of 1 10 100 1000 10000.  
What could be the possible reason?  
If you think it's a floating point inaccuracy that in the above for loop when i = 2, the values stored in variable a is 99.   
But if you write instead
now the value of a comes out to be 100. How is that possible?I can't even spell c, but I can tell you why.
You have set a to be an int. pow() generates a floating point number, that in SOME cases may be just a hair less than 100 or 10000 (as we see here.)
Then you stuff that into the integer, which TRUNCATES to an integer. So you lose that fractional part. Oops. If you really needed an integer result, round may be a better way to do that operation.
Be careful even there, as for large enough powers, the error may actually be large enough to still cause a failure, giving you something you don't expect. Remember that floating point numbers only carry so much precision.The function pow() returns a double. You're assigning it to variable a, of type int. Doing that doesn't "round off" the floating point value, it truncates it. So pow() is returning something like 99.99999... for 10^2, and then you're just throwing away the .9999... part. Better to say a = round(pow(10, i)).This is to do with floating point inaccuracy. Although you are passing in ints they are being implicitly converted to a floating point type since the pow function is only defined for floating point parameters.Mathematically, the integer power of an integer is an integer.
In a good quality pow() routine this specific calculation should NOT produce any round-off errors.  I ran your code on Eclipse/Microsoft C and got the following output:
This test does NOT indicate if Microsoft is using floats and rounding or if they are detecting the type of your numbers and choosing the appropriate method.
This continuing multiplication by ten is guaranteed to give you the correct answer, and quite OK (and much better than pow, even if it were giving the correct results) for tasks like converting decimal strings into integers.Fixings parameters of a fitting function in Nonlinear Least-Square GSLI'm working on some code that I'm writing which uses the GNU Scientific Library (GSL)'s Nonlinear least-squares algorithm for curve fitting.
I have been successful in obtaining a working code that estimate the right parameters from the fitting analysis.
Now, I would like to fix some of the parameters of the function to be fit. And I would need to modify the function in such a way that I can already input the value of the parameter to be fixed.
Any idea on how to do?
because I cannot find any detailed technical documentation, can anybody provide an explanation about these lines of code please, and why it is deemed unsafe.How do I remove last line from text file in CHere My text file which includes ips :
You may now delete the input file and rename the output file if you want to.
My C is pretty rusty and I know that unsigned and unsigned long are not the same but I'm unsure what is triggering the error. The system (AArch64) is running on CentOS 8 and the compiler is GCC-11. Thanks.How do I switch Eclipse from Java to C/C++?I used Eclipse Java last year for a class, and this year I have another class that's requiring us to use Eclipse C. I tried installing the Eclipse C/C++ packages, but when I write in Eclipse it stays in Java. Please help!!!
Also, I don't really want to uninstall Eclipse if I don't have to, because I'm still actively working on projects.You've basically downloaded 2 "modes" in Eclipse: Java mode, and C/C++ mode. If you type and it assumes it's Java, that's because the project you created is in "Java mode".
First, just quit out of the app and open it again. Maybe the update only enacts when the app is refreshed.
Now go File > New. If it's installed correctly, when you hover over "New", there should be the option "C/C++ Project". If there isn't, double check that you downloaded the correct extension. (Note that I'm on a Mac so the layout might be slightly different for you, but it's the same idea).How to add C/C++ header files in VS Code#include <graphics.h>
In practice, MY_switch_over_values_case_A (etc.) can be much longer than (what could be) a single line, and it's legacy code; adding a \ after every line is a real annoyance.  Is it possible to do something similar without having to put \ at the end of every line?
Note: the actual system already uses a legacy (internal, home-brew) pre-processor.  The goal is to get rid of that and do everything in Standard C++.  While m4 (et. al.) might be nicer than a legacy home-brew pre-processor, it still is non-standard.How to create a multiline macro without using backshlash for line continuation?
It is not possible in C in the source file itself.
Is it possible to do something similar without having to put \ at the end of every line?
Yes. You can remove \ characters and newlines and have one long line per macro.
How to create a multiline macro without using backshlash for line continuation?
Use something else then C preprocessor. To generate the following output:
Practical way of implementing comparison of unions in cFor some testing purposes, I need to compare two unions to see if they are identical. Is it enough to compare all members one by one?
My hunch is that it could fail if one the unions has first contained a larger type and then switched to a smaller type. I have seen some suggestions mentioning wrapping the union in a struct (like here: What is the correct way to check equality between instances of a union?) which keeps track of which data type that the union currently is, but I don't see how that would practically be implemented. Would I not need to manually set the union type in every instance where I set the union value?
It does not seem warranted to double all code where my union is involved simply to be able to make a perfect comparison of the union values. Am I missing some obvious smart way to go about this?If your proposal worked, then you could achieve the same effect without multiple comparisons by using memcmp(&left, &right, sizeof left). But that won't work and neither will your proposal, for the same reason.
First, assignment to a union member which does not occupy all the bytes allocated to the union has unspecified effect on the unoccupied bytes. The most likely is that they will not be modified from their previous values, but any value is possible. Comparing the values of such bytes has an unspecified result.
You might think that memsetting the bytes of the union to 0 before assigning a member would allow the comparison to work, but the standard does not require the unused bytes to be unmodified. Moreover, many compilers will optimise away the attempt to clear the union on the grounds that it has no legal effect if the next statement gives the union a new value.
There are other reasons why trying to compare union members which are not the current value, which apply even if neither value includes padding.
For example, if you don't know that the two union values currently have the same active member, you might get a false equivalence. (Every float has the same bit pattern as some int but the two values are certainly not the same.)
Less obviously, it's possible for two values with different bit patterns to actually be equal. (Floating point 0.0 and -0.0 are considered equal, for example.)
Finally, not every bit pattern is a valid float; if one or both of the union values is an int whose bit pattern corresponds to a floating NaN, trying to compare the values as floats will certainly produce the wrong answer (a NaN is not equal to itself) and may throw a floating point exception.
In short, if you don't know which type is active for a union, you cannot usefully use the union value, other than to assign it to another object of the same union type. That means that there must be some mechanism, internal or external, which identifies the active type of the union.
The choice between external mechanisms (used, for example, in yacc-generated parsers) and internal mechanisms (so-called "discriminated unions", as you suggest at the end of your question) will depend on the precise application environment.The tricky thing about a union is that there's no way to tell which member is the "active" one.  If all of the members happen to be the same size you can get away with checking just one member.
If the members are not the same size there are a few pitfalls you could encounter.
If you set a larger member followed by a smaller member, the extra bytes used by the larger member will be unchanged.  For example:
Since the extra bytes have indeterminate values and performing x.a == y.a would trigger undefined behavior by attempting to read those values.
You need to keep track of the active member in some way to know which one to read.  The simplest way to do this is to wrap the union in a struct with a "tag" field so you know which one to check.
Your isSame function mentioned in the comments would have to take two instances of the containing struct and use a switch statement to choose which field to check.  When you call it, you can use a compound literal to create a temp copy of the struct to compare against, i.e.:
It does not seem warranted to double all code where my union is involved simply to be able to make a perfect comparison of the union values.
It is test code.  Do not worry about double all code.  Make a perfect compare.
Am I missing some obvious smart way to go about this?
Comparing the widest type with memcmp() should be suffcient.
It is unclear how OP wants to handle the left-over junk in narrower fields.  IMO, the memcmp() compare should only happen with the last member assigned as indicated by .dataType.What I would do is to either compare the largest elements against each other (when having float or int) or, when having a pointer type (string), compare the elements of the pointer, so he have something like this:
This will either compare the two string or the numbers depending on the data type.
I said d1.str; I just put the union into the struct as unnamed union so you can just access the variables from the myData struct:
ow, I must say that I have not completely answered your question here …
You must keep track of the data type. If you look at the isSame function above, we must not compare invalid data against each other, e.g. string pointer and float, that does not make sense. Even using memcmp over it, it will not compare the bytes that are at that string pointer, but rather the pointer value itself.
So you must keep track of the data type and wrap your data union into another struct.You cannot compare two unions if you don't know which selector was used in the last assignment to both variables.  The only way to compare both unions (correctly) is that they have been assigned using the same selector field, and have the same value, using the comparison available for the type of that selector.
they will compare as true if they are compared with A.c == B.c, as the first character in both strings is the same.  But to false if they are compared with strcmp(A.s, B.s) == 0 (this should be the correct way of comparing them in this case)
More, because if we later do A.c = 'H'; and B.c = 'H';, then they will compare true if we use A.c == B.c (this should be now the correct way to compare) while they will compare false if we use strcmp(A.s, B.s) == 0.  Anyway, the second selector (the char [100] typed one) can be compared as an array of chars (lexicographically, or any other kind of collations) or as strings (null delimited), giving different results, depending on the history of assignments they have had.
How should we compare then?  (Think that the padded holes in one selector can be valid data in another.)Why does FFTW use ptrdiff_t (instead of e.g. size_t) for sizes?The FFTW library uses the C type ptrdiff_t in its interface to specify large array sizes, in particular in its “64-bit guru interface”:
None of these quantities can ever have a valid negative value, so why use a signed type instead of (e. g.) size_t, which is exactly the type meant for array sizes? This is even more puzzling because fftw_malloc(size_t n) does use size_t for its argument, and the documentation always states that all of these size arguments must not be negative.
In particular for MPI, I don’t see why ptrdiff_t (or even size_t) was chosen, since the data to transform could be distributed across multiple machines, and could thus (in principle) be larger than a single machine could hold in a single array (i. e. larger than SIZE_MAX). Wouldn’t uintmax_t (or even intmax_t) be more appropriate?Which string is the longestMy code:
What I'm trying to do is to input two strings, then return the longest one. If they're the same length then return NULL. Now, the code is just outputting gibberish and I cannot find out why. The function returns a pointer to the first character of the largest string. Then it goes through the while loop, and I'm trying to dereference the pointer and print out its value.
Note: I'm revising for an exam and we have to use only pointers and not treat strings as arrays.
In writing string_ln you iterate over both strings completely to find their lengths, and then compare those numbers. This can work, but you don't actually need to do this. You only need to know which is longer. It doesn't matter how much longer the longer string is.
We simply need to iterate over both strings, until at least one hits a NULL character. Once we get to that point, we can test to see which iterator is NULL. If it's both of them, then they're the same length. If the first iterator is not NULL, then the first string is longer. Otherwise, the second string is longer.
The benefit to this approach is that we avoid unnecessary work, and make it much quicker to compare strings of very different lengths.I think you're missing to dereference the pointer. Instead of
That said, in the called function, you're reuring pointers after the increment, i.e., the returned pointers do not point to the start of the string anymore. You need to ensure that you return pointers which points to the beginning of the string. You can change your code to
Second, in your main, you're using the %c format string, which works for a single char, not a whole string. Since you have a string anyway, you can avoid a format string and just print it directly. Also, note that you should explicitly check for NULLs:
because the passed strings are not being changed within the function.
You are returning from the function the already modified pointer p1 or p2 that is being changed in one of the while loops
So the returned pointer points to the terminating zero '\0' of a string.
Moreover in main before this while loop
you are not checking whether the pointer length is equal to NULL. As a result the program can invoke undefined behavior.
The function itself can be defined the following way using only pointers.
Pay attention to that the return type of the function is char * instead of const char *. It is because in C there is no function overloading and the returned pointer can point to a constant string or to a non-constant string. It is a general convention in C for declaring string functions.Use SDL_Surface in ARGB pixel formatI'm currently using the SDL library and I need direct access to the framebuffer in the ARGB pixel format.
An SDL_Surface has a "pixels" element that makes this possible but apparently it is in the ABGR format. How can I change it to ARGB?
Neither SDL_ConvertSurface() nor SDL_ConvertSurfaceFormat() have worked.
A solution for either SDL 1.2 or 2.0 would be fine as I don't need to use the renderer.How do I determine how many arguments that are being sent to a function? [duplicate]This question already has answers here:If I have a C function where one argument is "...", how do I determine if more than two arguments are being passed to that function? If the third argument being sent to my_func() would be int arg2, how do I access it?
In C, you can't deduce how many arguments are sent to the function from the arguments alone. You need some supporting information, usually passed in one of the arguments themselves. E.g., for the well-known printf, the first argument is a format string, and parsing it will tell the function how many other arguments it should take and their types.Get base of DLL in kernel modeHow would I get the base address of a specific dll loaded by a program?
Could not able to do bidirectional multicast connection using UDPHave to make it server & client as bidirectional where I should able to send & receive data in console.
I can able to send data from server to client but not able to receive any data from client.Stuck in this for long time could not know how to resolve it.
I just started working on networking any lead on this really helpful.
Your server is sending to the wrong address.
The server is using localSock as the destination address for sendto:
You want to instead use rcv_addr, which was populated as the source address from recvfrom.  Using this address as the destination will send the response back where it came from:
Multicast connection is like broadcast communication, you send the packet to a forum of receivers, awaiting to read it, and they consume it (if it arrives).  This normally means that you have to arrange for bidirectional connection in a way that allows all people skeaking in a room and selecting yourself the responses, as everybody is talking to everybody in a multicast channel.  Imagine you are chatting in a IRC channel, and you have to arrange with somebody how to direct messages only to that person, but with the anarchy of anybody being able to respond to such messages in the way they want.  You have always to think that what you say, you say to everybody susbscribed in that multicast channel, so normally you will receive several response packets, from which you will have to select...Token Ignore some elements in the StringI am trying to implement a project to read Hexadecimal number and sort it. The code with working with me correctly when I hard written the input inside the code, but when I modified the code to take the input from text file instead I got incorrect results and when I debugged the code I found that the token didn't get all the values and I can't figure out why.
The reason is to reduce struct size for unused options.
There are a lot of ifdefs! Everywhere!
Is there a C++ way to get rid of those ifdefs, retaining the ability for compiler to optimize out unused fields?
Maybe with templates, usings or CRTP inheritance?You can do it in C++20 with [[no_unique_address]] and some chicanary. This isn't guaranteed result in smaller types however, so I still suggest you use the #defines
I attempted to get the size of the array from the content inside of it, so in this case, having only one element, I should have gotten 1 instead of 30.In your code test[0] is a pointer, which points to the initial element of the array singleLine. In other words
does not "copy" the content of singleLine into test[0], rather it makes test[0] to point to the singleLine. It has no association with the stored value in singleLine at that point of time.
While trying to print the content of the memory location pointed to by test[0], it will always refer to the latest value stored in singleLine.
Now, in your while loop, the value of singleLine keeps getting updated, and later when you try to print the value after the loop, it prints the last read value which is stored into singleLine.
Please see Why is “while ( !feof (file) )” always wrong?
You need to allocate memory to each element of test array, and then copy (strcpy()) the content, if you want the values to persist.You can use something like this
does the following pre-increment expression really result in unsequenced modification?I have a legacy code performing double buffering with this instruction:
Even without a doubt, I would avoid such pre-increment construct so that I don't cause confusion in my rewiewers mind, and so that I don't generate brainstorming warnings uselessly.
But that's not my point. My point is that I want to understand if unsequenced modification is possibly true here for my own culture.
Is the evaluation order really undefined in this case, or is the warning a bit abusive?
Note: it's not the same case as Unsequenced modification warning where the variable clearly appear twice in an unsequenced manner, nor in the other possible duplicates suggested by SO (unless I overlooked).
It's not at all obvious that this applies to this case of assignment operator = to my understanding, since expression has to be evaluated BEFORE being assigned to, and since the sole side effect is pre-increment and will necessarily happen sometime during evaluation and before assignment.This statement still triggers undefined behavior.
None of the operators involved (=, binary &, prefix ++) introduce a sequence point, and both the = and ++ operators update one of their operands as a side effect.  And because bufferIndex is being modified by a side effect multiple times without a sequence point, we have undefined behavior.
This is spelled out in section 6.5p2 of the C standard:
If  a  side  effect  on  a  scalar  object  is  unsequenced  relative
to either  a  different  side  effect on  the  same  scalar  object
or  a  value  computation  using  the  value  of  the  same  scalar
object,  the  behavior  is  undefined. If  there  are  multiple
allowable  orderings  of  the subexpressions  of  an  expression,  the
behavior  is  undefined  if  such  an  unsequenced  side effect occurs
in any of the orderings.84)
And in fact footnote 84 referenced above gives an almost identical example to yours:
If a side effect on a scalar object is unsequenced relative to either
a different side effect on the same scalar object or a value
computation using the value of the same scalar object, the behavior is
undefined. If there are multiple allowable orderings of the
subexpressions of an expression, the behavior is undefined if such an
unsequenced side effect occurs in any of the orderings.
The value computations of the operands of an operator are sequenced before the value computation of the result of the operator.
The side effect of updating the stored value of the left operand is sequenced after the value computations of the left and right operands. The evaluations of the operands are unsequenced.
Note that that sequences the assignment's side effect relative to the value computations of its left and right operands, but not relative to any other side effects.
There is also a sequence point at the terminating semicolon, meaning that all the value computations and side effects of the code preceding are sequenced before all those of the code following.
There are no other sequencing constraints on the given statement expression.  In particular, the arithmetic and operator (&) does not add any sequencing constraints, nor does the pre-increment operator (prefix ++).
This last may be what has you confused.  The pre-increment operator both computes a result (equal the sum of the stored value of its operand plus 1) and has a side effect of updating the stored value of the object designated by its operand.  Although you might think about it in terms of updating the variable and then evaluating to the resulting value, that ordering is neither required nor specified.
None of the applicable constraints sequence the side effect of the assignment on variable bufferIndex relative to the side effect of the pre-increment on that same variable, therefore the behavior is undefined.There are two side effects on bufferIndex - one from the ++ operation and one from the =, and yes, they are unsequenced with respect to each other and can happen in any order:
They can even be executed simultaneously (either interleaved or in parallel if the system supports it).
The behavior is undefined - the compiler is not required to handle the situation in any particular way; any result is equally "correct" as far as the language is concerned.