Resize image without using cairo_surface_set_device_scaleIn old cairo-1.8.8-3.1, under C in linux clone of RHEL 6.4, I need to implement a function that performs the same operations as
as this function is not available, how can I do ?
In the Cairo Mailing Lists I found the following function that does the job :
but the quality is very low compared to cairo_surface_set_device_scale. What do GUI libraries actually do? [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.Can someone please explain me how some GUI libraries actually work?
I know most of these libraries are written in C/C++, but what is behind these libraries and them codes that does magic?
Can I make a GUI application without these libraries (by C/C++ language for all of these big operating-systems: Windows, Mac & Linux)? Or make my own library like GTK or QT? If yeah how?
I'm not a native speaker so I will be glad if someone correct my mistakes.doxygen compact #define DocumentationI often have code like this:
and there the Doxygen HTML documentation ("Macro Definition Documentation") looks bad. A lot of overhead and a lot of lines.
I like the compact Enumerations documentation. For the example above I would like to have something like:
Is this is this possible?c , add numbers result strangeI was solving the problem of adding numbers
The largest number that can be represented by an unsigned int is 4294967295. You need to either use long long or unsigned long long
If, on your system, unsigned int is 4 bytes long, then it's 32 bits, and the maximum value it can represent is 2^32.
A little program to check the size of unsigned int:
On my system, unsigned int is 4 bytes. Therefore, we need something bigger than 4 bytes to hold the number you want to input. So use unsigned long long int.
Furthermore, you should use the correct format conversion in scanf(3). And the resulting program is:
You can enter the big number in this program and it will print it correctly (in case your computer really uses 8 bytes for unsigned long long int).
When you print it for your system you will see if your result or assignment does not overflow the maximum or minimum value. Integer overflow and uderflow is an Undefined Behaviour (UB) in C.recheck
I need your help and experience.
I wrote an application in C (Engine) able to interface with an apparatus and carry out measurements.
It is a console application and works by using an input file passed as a parameter to the executable.
To improve its usability, I wrote a GUI using GTK3 to simplify the creation of the input file, to monitor through a console what is happening and, at the end of the measurement, to visualize in a graphic plot the progress obtained.
The time taken to make a measurement can also be considerable and if the system is configured incorrectly, you risk losing a lot of time.
To limit this possibility, I decided to implement the real-time display of the measurement. The trend of the same can indicate if something is wrong and you can interrupt the process, checking
the data entered and not wasting time.
The steps to implement this feature are as follows:
in Engine, in the routine that carries out the measurements, open a UDP socket to localhost (127.0.0.1) and port 8787 and as soon as the measurements are available (pair x, y) send them
In GUI, in the source file that creates the graph you define a thread in which a UDP soket is opened that receives data from the Engine and inserts it into a vector, global both to the thread and to the graphics program.
Stimulate the redrawing of the draw area by executing the command "gtk_widget_queue_draw (plotArea)"
Everything seems to work but the graph suddenly stops.
From analysis carried out I realized that in the UDP socket, although the data is sent correctly, the receiver at a certain point (repeatable) no longer arrives.
To give some examples:
if the measure consists of 1800 points, the points received are ALWAYS 990
if the measure consists of 1200 points, the points received are ALWAYS 690
The problem does not seem to be with UDP, because by writing a simple console code that opens the thread and receives via UDP, the data all arrives.
I realize that it is not easy to answer but maybe there is something macroscopic that in your experience immediately leaps to the eye unlike me.
In any case, thanks anyway
The OS is an UBUNTU 20.04
The code is all written in C
If necessary I can provide further detailsSame f2c generated C code, built with gcc on 2 platforms gives different resultsWe have a strange issue with our code, we used a same code since several years on several platforms, but this year we needed to build our software on a 64-bit RHEL 8 system.
During build processing, we need to convert some F77 code to C code using f2c tools.
During this convert processing some variables in memory are defined like this in the output C file.
But this C code is generated by f2c, I think the best way is to ask f2c dev team to known what's happening.
It is Undefined Behaviour as it violates the strict-aliasing rules. when you dereference the integer * (I believe that it is int *)
And the result is one of the most common way how UBs "work" - getting the different results using different compilers on when run on different platforms.As it was stated in answer that you trigger UB due to violation of strict aliasing rules.
However, I guess you problem may be caused by invalid alignment.
Expression (&dovit_1 + 5)) looks very suspicious because it is not properly aligned pointer to 4-byte-long int. Some platforms allow reading only pointer that are correctly aligned and compilers take advantage of that by "adjusting" the pointers.
Did it help?How to add double quotes in specific location in string array? I have one certificate where I want to add the double quotes(") at specific location in string array for make it in specific format. I wrote the code but its not working.
Can you tell where I m doing wrong?
Thanks in advance for your help and suggestion.There are a few errors in your code quickly revealed by enabling warning in your compiler:
because using strcmp will succeed only if the whole remainnig string was a new line.
Next one is returning a local variable what trigger UB.
Note that newKey is a automatic VLA, it will released after returning from the Format function.
You could use dynamic storage. Replace
it pointless because neither unformatterPem not key is modified.
is a dangerous heuristic because strings with a few hundred newlines will overflow this buffer. Better compute the required size in advance.
when allocation, add extra 3 bytes for first and last '"' and the string terminator, check for malloc failure:
You cant modify the string literal. I personally would use standard functions as performance-wise the function execution time is very low compared to the network/bluetooth messages exchange time.
This is the formatted C code of the replacement. It consist of a single block of statements, and the preprocessor will replace each occurence of address and p with the arguments given at the usage of the macro.
The code block takes the address of p as a byte pointer. Then it loops through all bytes of p (including padding) and calls EEPROM.write() with consecutive addresses (starting at address) and the respective byte of p.Marshalling a structure with char[] from C# to C on RaspberryPi/Arm32Original struct in C (gcc/arm32)
The call can be made, and the bool and uint fields CAN be passed correctly, however the char[] fields "spidev_path" deosn't, it shows all zero in the array.
DEBUG message output of address of structure members:
I've tried following alternatives for the "spidev_path" field, but none worked:
I assume that char[] is different from char* which is a pointer to another address in the memory, instead char[] is embedded immediately following other struct members, and this should be taken into consideration too.
from 1 &2, i decided that byte[] would be proper type for the managed side, however it doesn't work too.
I guess gcc/arm32 routines like running on a raspberrypi might be somehow different from a windows/linux64 c/cpp program on type mapping,is it?
can someone help?cs50 PSET2 Substitution: Trouble only in encrypts all alphabetic characters using DWUSXNPQKEGCZFJBTLYROHIAVM as keyI'm a beginner in cs50. This is my work on week2. This is problem set substitution.
so this is my code. All problems are compiled successfully except this one. The output is "Segmentation fault"
I don't know where's my problem since this is the only one can't be compiled. Does anyone have clue?(Unfortunately I could reproduce the Segmentation fault on onlinegdb.com.)
The size of the array checker must be at least the string length of the input. This is problematic because you don't know how long the input will be. Your example input is longer than the size 25 of the array, so your code will write past the end of the array and (try to) overwrite whatever is stored at this memory location. This can result in a segmentation fault.
To avoid this out-of-bounds access to the array you could check the length of the input string and either truncate it or print an error message that informs the user about the limitation.
A better solution would be to integrate the check for uppercase/lowercase in the function that encrypts the input. With this approach you have to know the uppercase/lowercase information only for the character just being processed, not for all characters of the input string.
As this is a task for learning, I don't show a ready-made solution but only an algorithm as pseudo code:
for all characters of the input string
Note that the result of function isalpha depends on your locale settings. For languages other than English, additional characters might be classified as alphabetic ones. This could result in an out-of-bounds access to your key array. To avoid this you could add a check for isascii or use explicit checks for 'A'..'Z' or 'a'..'z'.c printing more pages with cairo and cupsI need, in C in under a linux environment, to print documents with an image as a background.
I found an example which use Cairo vector graphics library to author a PostScript, and then sends it that off to CUPS for printing.
I modified the initial source code to integrate it with a background image (background-img.png) .
The text to be printed is more than one page, I would like to know how can I print on multiple pages keeping the same image as background and changing only the foreground text ?
How can I resize the background image to match the size of an A4 page ?
Here is the code used as a starting point :
I added the text enclosed in "second page". I can create another page, but I can't resize the background image.
How can I resize the image to fit the A4 size?
I used cairo_surface_set_device_scale to resize the image, and the mono font to use a fixed width font
The problem now is that the code works with cairo-1.15.12-4 while if I try to compile with cairo-1.8.8-3.1 I get undefined reference to cairo_surface_set_device_scale'.
What can I solve the problem? At the moment I cannot update the libraries using rpm as I would have to update the whole operating system.
Can I somehow replace the cairo_surface_set_device_scale with functions that perform the same task?
but the quality is very low compared to cairo_surface_set_device_scale.Taking input and output to file using pointer arrayHere, the array pointer name[i] is not not working and I can't figure out how to do change the pointer or the array to make it work. There was no compiler error/warning but the console terminal showed negative return value and printf() was not working, and also the output file was created but it was empty. Nothing was written into the output file. I guess theres som problem with the fscanf() action of taking string input from file.
Find element in array due to it's occurence in said arrayI have an issue where I need to find an element within the array and return that array element with the occurrence that it's at, along with the index. This must be done in a modified sequential search algorithim.
For instance, I have an array of {5, 6, 5, 3, 5}, and the user input occ(occurrence) = 2, key = 5, in this case, the program would return an output such as "The value 5 has an occurrence of 2 at index 2"
I have written code that loops through the array, finds the desired values and stores them in a count function, but am unsure on how to get my desired result.
My function code is as follows:
I somehow got it to work earlier but with inconsistent results, so continued trying to solve the problem and came to this code.
Any help would be greatly appreciated.
thank youThanks to Kaylum's comment I got to my desired result. In the end, all I had to do change the if if(occ == i) to if(count == occ) and move it up into the first for loop.
The working code is as follows:
Big thanks to Kaylum for the comment!About OS and system calls using c in linux [closed]Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.In the code given below buffer is used for reading from the file and msg is to write into the file but if size of buffer is not suff then also it is reading whole msg can anyone explain?
How to get proper backtrace from signal handler of multi threaded process in Linux?I'm using Linux and I'm trying to get call stack from signal handler with libunwind for debugging purpose. My target application is multi-threaded, and I don't know which thread will generate which signal.
At first I used libunwind to backtrace the call stack in signal handler, but backtraced result was not the call stack of actual thread that generate the signal(result was something like library call stacks or maybe not...).
After some googling I understanded that most signals(except SIGFPE, SIGILL, SIGBUS, SIGSEGV) will be send to process, not actual thread which generate the signal.
My question is, Is there any way to backtrace call stack of actual thread which generate signals in multi threaded application??
If there aren't any simple way, I'm also thinking about workarounds like get pid of thread which generate signal(is this possible???) and send another per-thread signal(like SIGFEP or SIGSEGV) to that thread.
Anyone has idea???I don't understand this crashThis is my code for solving the problem "Students Marks Sum" in Hackerrank:
When I move this code into an IDE (in my situation, it's DEV C/C++), it was crashed when my debug ran into my function marks_summation.
There are a number of approaches you can pick to iterate over such array.
You can calculate the memory address that will no longer be valid to read and check at each iteration if your pointer is smaller than it:
Why am I getting error for array size although i have given array size in code?
Here in this question I was writing a code to remove duplicates from a sorted array. But I am getting the following error although I defined the array size and although I provided the array size.
To remove duplicates there is no need to define an auxiliary array.
The function can be written for example the following way as shwon in the demonstrative program below.
How can I update a string in CSo I have an array of strings. Im using this to send messages to the client.
I want to be able to update [1] with the score so it would look like could look something like
I am sending messages to the clients like this eg to welcome the player to the game.
How could I append an int to that string is it possible? Or any tips on where to look.
Thank you.How could I append an int to that string is it possible?
Modifying a string-literal isn't possible, since they are typically located in a read-only portion of the executable.
You could dynamically generate the string you want to send, though:
always returns the current process's pid which is never zero, so in your current code, neither of the two processes does the execlp.
You want to look at child_Pid1 instead of getpid().  In the child it returns 0 instead of the child's pid.Why does scanf ask twice for input when there's a newline at the end of the format string?#include <stdio.h>
When I run the code above, the prompt is asking me twice for input (I only use scanf once in the code). Why is that?
White space (such as blanks, tabs, or newlines) in the format string match any amount of white space, including none, in the input.  Everything else matches only itself.
Thus with scanf ("%s\n", a) it will scan for a string followed by optional white space. Since after the first newline more whitespace may follow, scanf is not done after the first newline and looks what's next. You will notice that you can enter any number of newlines (or tabs or spaces) and scanf will still wait for more.
However, when you enter the second string, the sequence of whitespace is delimited and scanning stops.
Use scanf ("%s", a) to not scan trailing whitespace.you have to remove the \n from the string format of the scanf. It should be
the %s means that the scanf reads the input character till it gets a delimiter which should be a white space like space or tab or new line(\n) so the first enter is get as a delimiter for the "%s" and adding the "\n" to the string format "%s\n" means that the scanf will wait 2 newlines the first newline is related to the delimiter of the "%s" and the second newline is related to the\n of the string format.use gets() or fgets() instead...alternatively use scanf("%[^\n]s",a);Remove \n from the scanf format and give an input and it displays the output based on the given output once.you can use either of these to avoid the mentioned problem :
Don't use \n on scanf, it won't ask you twice and sometimes it might show an error
Try this on scanf: scanf("%s", a);Don't use the escape sequence in scanf stdio function
How are things such as images, web connections and hardware management implemented in computers? [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.Recently I watched a few videos about game development and AI training and got interested in the topics. Not specially in their "rewards", but how they are implemented at low-level. I've done a few personal projects in Python, however most of the things there are already chewed and it's hard to understand computers in real depth.
I'd like to know how operations such as:
Web connections (and derivatives like web-scraping)
Hardware management
are implemented. Or are these things handled only by the System software and thus it would be hard to explain given the lack of abstraction? Can programming languages (not assembly) also play a part on it? Since I'm familiar with C and it is the "core" of most of today's systems, a special attention to it would be appreciated. There are any places/books I can search for reference?How do I resolve alias events in libyaml in c incase of blocksI know there is anchors for every event but there is no way to seek, then how to deref value when deref blocks or not just valuesUs-100 ultrasonic sensor: zero resultI'm confused why the result is always zero
I'm sure I put the sensor pin correctly.
I've also used #include <SoftwareSerial.h> and that didn't work either.
So I'm worried that my sensor is broken.
does anyone have a solution or idea for my problem?
I would rather use a different software approach, implementing a serial communication with TX-RX pins instead of sending and measuring pulses. This approach will check also if your device is working.
Please reconnect the connections of your device as follows:
Great article here where you can find all the information:
This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.I am relatively new to using files in C. Today, when I was working on my program, when I declared a FILE pointer and tried to utilize it,
I keep getting this error:
I am pretty sure I have the formatting correct, so I am not too sure what the issue seems to be. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank you!You forgot to assign the returned value of the call of the function fopen to the pointer fp
Pay attention to that it is better to declare the function parameters with the qualifier const because they are not being changed within the function
bool  runIntegrate( const char * infilename, const char * outfilename)macOS: Override Modifier Key with CG Event Tap So I recently spilled some water on my macbook pro keyboard, and my left command and option keys no longer function. Apple wants me to mail it in for repairs, which I don't have time for right now. So I thought I'd override the right command key to serve as left control seeing as the left command key still works.
I adapted the following from a keylogger gist I found:
Now the event tap works correctly, and it does intercept keyboard events ( I can see TEST 12 54 printed to the console), but the key is still behaving as command and not control. According to the documentation for CGEventTapCallback, the callback may return:
A newly-constructed event. After the new event has been passed back to the event system, the new event will be released along with the original event.
Passing in kCGHeadInsertEventTap as the tap location should ensure my event tap is inserted at the head of the handler list. Am I doing something wrong here or is it just not possible to modify events like this?@Willeke was correct in their comment. Although I was correctly overriding the event, what I really needed to do was use the keydown/keyup events to keep track of when the right command key is pressed. I could then use that flag to intercept other keypress events, remove the command modifier, and insert the control modifier flag use bitwise operators. However, the simple solution here to this problem comes from the documentation link they provided:
I looked at the cause of this problem being a segmentation fault.Im not too sure if my pointers are causing this or when I enter in a max number of process. Maybe somehow  there is not enough processes for the new created child processes ?
I appreciate any input and help.
I've been trying to figure out assigning for loop values to a array and print them out accordingly. The second j for loop is just there to simualte the actual project I'm working on and I've created a separate c file for this particular extraction to test it out. As far as I know the array should be printing {0,3,6}but it seems to be printing {0, 1, 71341984, 3, 71341680, 1, 6, 1, 4185744}. Is there any way to avoid these unassigned indexes?Local variables that have not been initialized have indeterminate values.  This basically means that if you attempt to read them, their contents could be any value and (because the array elements never had their address taken) could even change on subsequent reads.
You should initially set all values of the array to some known sentinel value that is known to be invalid and use that value to see if a given array element is valid or not.You say that the program should only print "0 3 6".  However, your last for loop prints out the value at every single index and there are nine indices.
If you want to avoid printing the unassigned values, then you need to tell your program that.  You're only assigning a value to array[i] when i%3 == 0.  Therefore, that condition needs to be in your loop:
In the past, I implemented a function in C language.
(Socket communication using multithreading)
I am studying JavaScript because I want to use this function on the web.
So do I have to rewrite it all in JavaScript?
Can't call C from JavaScript?Where is the user input in a C program initially stored?Consider, for instance, a simple C program as follows:
Ignore the deployment of scanf() for a moment. Nevertheless, the user enters the string and presses enter, which corresponds to the ASCII newline character (\n). Now, pray explain where the user-input gets stored initially. Is the string initially stored in a buffer and then passed to the character array arrr? If so, it is passes serially or passed at once? If the aforementioned isn't applicable, is the string directly copied into the character array serially?
Moreover, on a tangential note, what precisely is a buffer in C? Where can I find resources apropos the functionality, description, and management of this specific buffer? Countless instances of my programs that invoke the scanf() and fgets() functions flounder owing to, what the adept users at StackOverflow have rightfully ascertained, a lingering newline character in the buffer. What does this imply? I was given to understand, much to my chagrin, that the program directly stores the data in the character array. Is this not the case?C and GTK3 - How to run a thread uninterrupted?I've been trying to: show 4 random dice faces, 0.4 seconds apart, giving the impression that a dice is rolling. I've put the code to do this in a thread.
But the program crashes after a small number of "rolls". Sometimes it does not even get through the first roll. All sorts of run-time errors are generated.
The last thing I've tried is mutex protection of the thread code. I suspect this is just protecting the code from other threads but my program does not have other threads.
As pointed out in this answer, you should not be calling GTK functions from any other thread than the one in which gtk_main is executed.
In fact, in the event-driven program you should not be using additional threads at all unless you need to optimize some heavy computations. What you should do instead is utilize the features of your event-driven framework, in your case GTK, in order to execute all event handling in the main thread.
In your case this means that you should use g_timeout_add function to schedule calling your animation function at regular intervals from the main thread:
Removing trailing newline character from fgets() inputI am trying to get some data from the user and send it to another function in gcc. The code is something like this.
However, I find that it has a newline \n character in the end. So if I enter John it ends up sending John\n. How do I remove that \n and send a proper string.Perhaps the simplest solution uses one of my favorite little-known functions, strcspn():
The function counts the number of characters until it hits a '\r' or a '\n' (in other words, it finds the first '\r' or '\n'). If it doesn't hit anything, it stops at the '\0' (returning the length of the string).
Note that this works fine even if there is no newline, because strcspn stops at a '\0'. In that case, the entire line is simply replacing '\0' with '\0'.The elegant way:
Note that the strtok function doesn't work as expected if the user enters an empty string (i.e. presses only Enter). It leaves the \n character intact.
Now use buffer and len as needed.
This method has the side benefit of a len value for subsequent code.  It can be easily faster than strchr(Name, '\n').  Ref  YMMV, but both methods work.
buffer, from the original fgets() will not contain in "\n" under some circumstances:
A) The line was too long for buffer so only char preceding the '\n' is saved in buffer. The unread characters remain in the stream.
B) The last line in the file did not end with a '\n'.  
If input has embedded null characters '\0' in it somewhere, the length reported by strlen() will not include the '\n' location.
The steps to remove the newline character in the perhaps most obvious way:
If you rather like a function for use this technique by handling fgets output strings in general without retyping each and every time, here is fgets_newline_kill:
Note that this method does not work if the input string has embedded \0s in it. If that would be the case strlen() would only return the amount of characters until the first \0. But this isn´t quite a common approach, since the most string-reading functions usually stop at the first \0 and take the string until that null character.
Aside from the question on its own. Try to avoid double negations that make your code unclearer: if (!(fgets(Name, sizeof Name, stdin) != NULL) {}. You can simply do if (fgets(Name, sizeof Name, stdin) == NULL) {}.If using getline is an option - Not neglecting its security issues and if you wish to brace pointers - you can avoid string functions as the getline returns the number of characters. Something like below
The [ security issues ] with getline shouldn't be neglected though.In general, rather than trimming data that you don't want, avoid writing it in the first place.  If you don't want the newline in the buffer, don't use fgets.  Instead, use getc or fgetc or scanf.  Perhaps something like:
Note that this particular approach will leave the newline unread, so you may want to use a format string like "%255[^\n]%*c" to discard it (eg, sprintf(fmt, "%%%zd[^\n]%%*c", sizeof Name - 1);), or perhaps follow the scanf with a getchar().Tim Čas one liner is amazing for strings obtained by a call to fgets, because you know they contain a single newline at the end. 
If you are in a different context and want to handle strings that may contain more than one newline, you might be looking for strrspn. It is not POSIX, meaning you will not find it on all Unices. I wrote one for my own needs.
For those looking for a Perl chomp equivalent in C, I think this is it (chomp only removes the trailing newline).
The function below is a part of string processing library I am maintaining on Github. It removes and unwanted characters from a string, exactly what you want
You may want to check other available functions, or even contribute to the project You should give it a try. This code basically loop through the string until it finds the '\n'. When it's found the '\n' will be replaced by the null character terminator '\0'
Note that you are comparing characters and not strings in this line, then there's no need to use strcmp():
since you will be using single quotes and not double quotes. Here's a link about single vs double quotes if you want to know moreCan I restrict a window to only show inside of another window in .NET?I'm currently converting an old C library to C#. Part of the library displays two windows, one is an outer window and the other is an inner window. The inner window is restricted to only appearing inside of the outer window. If a user attempts to drag it outside of the outer window, the part that should appear outside becomes hidden. If you maximise the inner window it just takes up all available space within the outer window.
I'm not sure how to reproduce this kind of behaviour in .NET though assuming it is possible. Does anyone have any suggestions?Merge sort input cannot be higher than 8I am trying to run the program to receive input upto size 10^7. The program keeps showing segmentation fault when i enter 8 or a higher number as the number of elements. The elements before that are fine. I have only included the necessary parts of the code. Is it because of recursion or memory allocation. Also, if we can include array as dynamic allocation as *b=malloc(n) will it work?
My laptop has a limited functionality for the backlight button on the keyboard. Is there a way to write a program that runs automatically each time the backlight button is pressed which executes the customized lighting animation?global 2D array values changing between modulesI have a 2D extern array "the_board[17][25]". I am fairly new to C and believe I have some linking issue. in my board.c file I initialized the board, giving every cell a value. when calling the board in my other functions, the values change, even though I have made no edits to the array since initializing it.
This is where the problem I run into. When calling the_board[][], the values become screwed up. For an example this is what happens when I print the_board[BOARD_SIZE_Y][BOARD_SIZE_X] in main.c:
You have one initialised global the_board, defined in board.c.
You have one non-initialised local the_board defined inside main().
That second one hides the first one.
Delete the line which defines it, i.e.
Can't set cbData in Reg Set Value I am trying to create a registry key with type REG_SZ and with a value longer than 4 chars.
But I can't figure out the right way to pass the data as argument :
data is being passed as a pointer to a function, so its actual size will be lost. sizeof(data) is translated to the size of a pointer, which is 4 bytes in this case.
You have to either pass in the size as a parameter:
Or better yet, use wcslen() to calculate the string length, then multiply that by sizeof(wchar_t).
Since you are using those T macros, the function can be written as:
so I understand that global variables are evil, and programmers should avoid them. However, I have been doing some studying regarding potential vulnerabilities behind it, so that is the reason why I'm using it at the moment.
So the core question is that why for a global variable pointer, do I have to get the address of a variable to store the value stored in that variable?
My understanding of storing a value to a pointer is how I used the int *test; variable. I simply dereference this variable *test = value to store the value. However, I am curious why for global variable pointer *size, I cannot simply do *size = value, but instead must do size = &value.
I tried searching this question through StackOverflow, but maybe I didn't phrase the question right or such, so I could not find the relevant link for it.
I would appreciate any kind of tips, thank you in advance,
It is undefined behaviour. The pointer is not initialized and it is not referencing a valid int object. Your code "works" only by accident - you did not overwrite anything important or the wild (initialized pointers are called this way)  was not referencing the protected memory area. Never use any not initialized pointers or  automatic variables.
It is a very serious C programming error. It does not matter if the pointer is defined in the file (global) or local scope. They behave exactly the same.converting an entered 5 digit number into wordsI'm trying to write a program that reads a five digit zip code, then outputs the numbers in word form. The program would also only accept a 5 digit number. So if the input was 123, the output would be "You entered 3 digits" and loop back until the user entered five digits. Once they did, it would output the number in word format. So if 12345 was entered, the output would be one two three four five. This is what I have so far:
There are two issues I need help with. The first is that whenever a number that doesn't have five digits is input, it outputs correctly once, and then the loop is infinite. If I entered 123, output would be "You entered 3 digits," and then it would prompt me to enter another number. If I then entered 12345 it would output "You entered 3 digits" again. I'm new to loops not sure where this problem is coming from.
The second issue is just the conversion from numbers to words, I've never encountered this issue and I'm not sure where to start.As already pointed out in the comments section, the logic in your code will not work with codes that start with a zero.
If you store the code as an integer, then you cannot distinguish the code 01234 from the code 1234. Therefore, if you want to be able to distinguish these two codes, you must, at least initially, read the number as a string, not as a number:
Note that the code above additionally requires the header file stdlib.h to be included.
Now, you must count the number of characters entered and verify that there were exactly 5. Also, you must verify that all entered characters were digits. If the input is not valid, then you must provide an appropriate error message and prompt the user again. This can be best accomplished using an infinite loop, which is repeated until the input is valid, at which point an explicit break statement is executed, which will break out of the infinite loop.
Converting the individual digits to words can easily be done by creating an array of pointers to strings, so that the 0th element points to the string "zero", the 1st element points to "one", etc:
Since the ISO C standard guarantees that all numbers are consecutive in the character set (irrespective of which character set you are using), you can simply subtract '0' (the character code of the digit 0) from the character code in order to convert the digit from a character code to an actual number between 0 and 9. Now, you can use that number to index into the array digit_names to print the corresponding word.
As for the second part of your question, its not clear if you want to perform some operations on the number. If you need to have it as a int, you may use snprintf() and large enough buffer to convert it to a string.
If you don't need to perform any operations on the number, you can read it as string right away, with fgets().
(This will also work for zip codes starting with 0)Sometimes it helps to simplify.
In this case eliminating one while loop and using a helper function in the remaining loop will help. The following enables the code to iterate until the right input is entered with a single loop.  (note, example contains no error handling, just concept illustration.)
I'm not sure what char *(*ver)() is doing and why it's needed? Can anyone explain?dlsym(dl, "show_version") returns the address for the symbol show_version. Since show_version is a function, that is the address of the function.
The char * it returns is passed to printf to be printed.dlsym - obtain address of a symbol in a shared object or executable
This means that when you do dlsym(dl, "show_version"); you are not actually calling the function show_version in your shared library. You obtain the address of that function - which can be used to call the function over and over again.
You need a pointer to a function (with the correct signature) to be able to call the function and get the result you want. You can't call a char* and when you do  printf("%s\n", ver); it'll just start reading the memory at the address (where your function is stored) until it finds a null terminator. You probably see just gibberish.
If you on the other hand have a proper function pointer, you can as you've noticed, call the function it points at with ver() and you get a char* in return which points at the string your dynamically loaded function returned.
You can also use function pointers in your programs without involving shared libraries.
Keep track of the number of digits in your number, and then print the number with a formatted length:
Use %n specifier to count the number of digits entered. Note the space before the first %n to skip any whitespace. Also this will fail if the input is not an integer in range.
Then use the number of digits to pad the output %0*d with leading zeros.
It is better to use the type unsigned int instead of the type int. Otherwise you can get an unexpected result.
What you need is just to output the reversed number in a field with the width equal to the number of digits in the entered number prefixed with zeroes if required.
mory allocation. I did the createMatrix() function by myself, but the second multiplication function is quite tricky because of randomly generated values.
I would appreciate any help.
The number of int inputs between the parenthesis is unknown, and could extend for a while.
My original thought was to scanf() the first int, then create a while loop to determine when the closed paranethsis is scanned. Then finally use fgets() to get the string at the end, something similar to this.
This however prints the following output when I print my address, array, and string:
The inputted ints between the parenthesis were never set to the array. Is there a better way to determine when ')' is inputted?The problem is that scanf("%c", will read the very next character in the input, without skipping any whitespace.  If you want to skip whitespace, you need a space in the format, eg scanf(" %c",.  You should also check the scanf return value to make sure that you got an integer
If you want to do this with interactive input, you should probably use fgets or getline to read entire lines and sscanf to parse each line independently so you don't confuse your user when there's an error in the middle of a line.  The "read line + sscanf" is also very useful if you have a number of different patterns that you want to try (sscanf on the same line with different formats to find the first one that matches).scanf should never be used.  Ever.  But....you might try something like:
This does not correctly handle input with a trailing comma like: 1 (2 ,3 ,4, ) lantern, and I'm sure there are many other inputs that it does not like.  Exercise left for the reader.
You probably don't want to use an initial capacity as small as 4, but it's convenient for simple testing. This may not be the most popular answer, and it may or may not help your immediate goals, but I am of the philosophy to read input as a stream of bytes and parse via (crude or sophisticated) state machine:
This gives you the most control over handling your specific data format, in my opinion.
You can define your own process_word() and process_number() functions, of course.  process_number() might assign the number to the address field of a record if depth == 0, for example, or add it to adjacent_room[] if depth == 1. process_word() might add the string to the item field of the same record.  Completely up to you.  ¯\_(ツ)_/¯Understanding segmentation fault in core dump on NULL pointer checkI am having difficulty understanding how this segmentation fault is possible. The architecture of the machine is armv7l.
The segmentation fault is caused when "ldr r0, [r5, #0]" tries to access the memory address pointed to by r5. In GDB I get a similar message when trying to access it in GDB:
However, all offending register values are calculated by static values. So I don't understand how the memory address is not accessible.
The source code is loaded and executed via a shared library using dlopen and dlsym:
The assembly code resolves the address of global variable gl_pClient using dll relocations, which are loaded using program-counter-relative addressing. Then the code loads from that address and crashes. It looks like the relocations got corrupted, so that the resolved address is invalid.
There isn't much else can be said without a reproduction.
You may like to run your program under valgrind which may report memory corruption. Having difficulty correctly inputting multiple integers at the same time using scanf()So I have a coding project where I have to calculate the overall grade of a student in a class where they have 4 quizzes, 2 midterms, and 1 final exam. The quiz and exam are weighted 30% and the midterm 40%. I just help with 2 things:
My code doesn't want to start w/o having 4 individual input numbers (79 80 0 0).
When getting to the exam part of the code, it for some reason bypasses the needed user input and autos it to the 3rd number in the quiz coding.
I'm coding in c programming.
Your problems have nothing to do with the logic of your program, nothing to do with computing grades, and everything to do with: scanf.  scanf is simultaneously the most useful-looking, and the most actually useless, function in the C library when it comes to introductory C programming.
Here are three simple rules for using scanf in introductory C programming:
Use only one of the following four input formats: "%d", "%s", "%f", "%lf".  If you simply must read individual characters, you can add a fifth: " %c" (but make sure you always use that extra space).  Use these in isolation, one at a time, without combining them or adding any other characters.
Always check the return value of scanf.  If you want to do something fancier, that you can't accomplish with the limited number of formats allowed by rule 1, then it's time to learn how to use something better than scanf.
If it was me, i'd keep the code simple, i wouldn't use negative indices, and i wouldn't start from position 1 instead of 0. What I would do is as follows:
Why does adding an if(!memcmp()) speed up a loop that makes random short strides through a huge byte array?Sorry, I have never understood the rules here. I have deleted all the duplicate posts I have posted. This is the first related issue.
Please do not mark this post as a duplicate of my other one(Reduce the number of executions by 3 times, but the execution efficiency is almost unchanged. In C), even if the code is somewhat similar, they raise very different questions.These are also two problems that I found on the same day. A similar post has been repeated by "misjudgment" and then closed. It may be that I did not clarify this issue. I really hope to get the answer, so I reposted it. I hope everyone can see the problem clearly, thank you very much!
In the following C code, I added an "if" statement to the loop of the first test time, and the execution times are exactly the same. In theory, it should be slower. Even though branch prediction can make their performance almost the same, it actually becomes a lot faster. What is the principle of this? I tried to use clang and gcc compilers to run in Mac and Linux environments respectively, and tried various optimization levels. In order to prevent the cache from being affected, I let the faster ones execute first, but the loops with redundant code execute faster.
If you think my description is not credible, please compile the following code into your computer and run it. Hope someone can answer this question for me，thanks.
I have run hundreds of times, almost all of this ratio. The following is a representative result of a test in Linux:
The key bottleneck is the load-use latency of cache misses while striding through tex[], as part of the dependency chain from old i to new i.  Lookups from the small rand_array[] will hit in cache and just add about 5 cycles of L1d load-use latency to the loop-carried dependency chain, making it even more unlikely for anything other than latency through i to be relevant to the overall speed of the loop.  (Jérôme Richard's answer on your previous question discusses that latency dep chain and the random stride increment.)
memcmp(tex+i, str, SLen) might be acting as prefetching if tex+i is near the end of a cache line.  If you compiled with -O0, you're calling glibc memcmp so the SSE 16-byte or AVX2 32-byte load done in glibc memcmp crosses a cache-line boundary and pulls in the next line.  (IIRC, glibc memcmp checks and avoids page crossing, but not cache-line splits, because those are relatively cheap on modern CPUs.  Single-step into it to see.  Into the 2nd call to avoid lazy dynamic linking, or compile with -fno-plt).
Possibly touching some cache lines that would have been skipped by the random stride helps HW prefetch be more aggressive and detect it as a sequential access pattern.  A 32-byte AVX load is half a cache line, so it's fairly likely to cross into the next one.
So a more-predictable sequence of cache-line requests seen by the L2 cache is a plausible explanation for the memcmp version being faster.  (Intel CPUs put the main prefetchers in the L2.)
If you compile with optimization, that 10-byte memcmp inlines and in the inner loop only touches 8 bytes.  (If they match, then it jumps to another block where it checks the last 2.  But it's exceedingly unlikely that ever happens).
This might be why -O0 is faster than -O3 on my system, with GCC11.1 on i7-6700k Skylake with DDR4-2666 DRAM, on Arch GNU/Linux.  (Your question didn't bother to specify which compiler and options your numbers were from, or which hardware.)
The perf counter data is basically meaningless; it's for the whole run time, not the timed regions (which are about 0.1 sec out of 1.8 sec), so the majority of the time spent here was in glibc random(3) which uses "a nonlinear additive feedback random number generator employing a default table of size 31 long integers".  Also in page-faults on the big malloc region.
It's only interesting in terms of the delta between two builds, but the loops outside the timed region still contribute many extra uops so it's still not as interesting as one would like.
Remember this profiling is for the total run time, not the timed regions, so the 2.83 IPC is not for the timed region.
Out of order exec hiding cost of independent work
The actual throughput cost of running that macro-fused cmp/je uop doesn't add to any bottleneck, thanks to out-of-order exec.  
Or even a whole call memcmp@plt and setting up the args.  The bottleneck is latency, not the front-end, or load ports in the back end, and the OoO exec window is deep enough to hide the memcmp work.  See also the following to understand modern CPUs.  (Yes, it will take a lot of reading to wrap your head around them.)
The loop-carried dependency through i goes i -> tex[i] -> indirectly back into i for next iteration, monotonically increasing it.  tex[] is too big to fit in cache, and HW prefetch won't keep up with those strides.
So DRAM bandwidth might be the limiting factor, or even DRAM latency if HW prefetch doesn't detect and lock on to the somewhat-sequential access pattern to consecutive or every-other cache line.
The actual branch predicts perfectly, so it can execute (and confirm the prediction) when the load result arrives, in parallel with the stuff waiting for the sign-extending byte load that started at the same place.
Only if your theory is too simplistic to model modern CPUs.  Not slowing it down is easily explainable because there is spare out-of-order exec throughput to do that independent work while waiting for the load latency.
What considerations go into predicting latency for operations on modern superscalar processors and how can I calculate them by hand?
How many CPU cycles are needed for each assembly instruction? (that's not how performance works; CPUs overlap the execution of multiple instructions; there is no single number cost you can assign to each instruction and then add them up).
Adding a redundant assignment speeds up code when compiled without optimization - Sandybridge-family store forwarding has variable latency, and not trying too soon can actually let you achieve better latency, i.e. less of a bottleneck.  But I think the major reason -O0 memcmp is faster is the prefetch effect from doing a wider load.
For reference, the with-memcmp inner loops from GCC on Godbolt, matching what I benchmarked on my desktop.
Since the je .L18 is never taken, this is 7 uops per iteration, so Skylake can comfortable issue it at under 2 cycles per iteration.
Even with L1d cache hits, the loop-carried dependency through i (R13D) is:
So a total of about 13 cycle latency best case with L1d hits, leaving tons of free "slots" in the front-end, and idle back-end execution units, that even a call to actual glibc memcmp would be no big deal.
(Of course the -O0 code is noisier so some of those free slots in the pipeline area already used up, but the dep chain is even longer because -O0 code keeps i in memory: Why does clang produce inefficient asm with -O0 (for this simple floating point sum)?)
CPU frequency in memory-bottlenecked loops, especially on Skylake
The init loops provide plenty of time for the CPU to get to max turbo before the timed region, and to pre-fault the allocated pages by touching them first.  Idiomatic way of performance evaluation?
There might also be an effect of keeping CPU frequency higher if there's more work, less stalling, during those waits for incoming data from cache miss loads.  See Slowing down CPU Frequency by imposing memory stress.
In the above results, I tested with EPP = balance_performance.
I also tested with performance, and -O0 (libc memcmp) is still faster than -O3 (inlined memcmp), but all 4 loops did speed up some (with/without memcmp, and optimized or not).
The faster-at--O0 effect is still present and very significant even with EPP=performance, so we know it's not just a matter of clock speed.  From previous experiments, performance keeps it pegged at max turbo even in memory-bound conditions where other settings would clock down from 4.2 to 2.7 GHz.  So it's very likely that calling memcmp is helping trigger better prefetching to reduce average cache-miss latency.
I unfortunately didn't use a fixed seed for the PRNG so there may be some variation due to the randomness being good vs. bad for the prefetcher, in terms of patterns of whole cache lines accessed.  And I just took one specific run for each (the 2nd one in the pair started by perf stat -r 2, so it should hopefully be even less affected by system fluctuation.)
Looks like performance made a bigger difference to the No.2 loop (with less going on in it), and also to the -O3 version (again with less going on in it), which is consistent with Skylake lowering clock speed when a core is pretty much only bottlenecking on memory, not running many other instructions, in EPP settings other than performance.Short answer, and pure speculation: In the first timed loop, the buffer pointed to by tex is still in cache after initialization. The printf does a lot of complicated stuff, including kernel calls, and any cache-lines are now very likely filled with other data.
The second timed loop now has to re-read the data from RAM.
Try to swap the loops, and/or delay the printf to after both measurements.
Oh, and the call to memcmp has a potential buffer overflow.Convert Java int to C unsigned intI am wondering if it would be possible to convert Java int to a C unsigned int especially if Java int is negative?
Edit in response to comments: the conversion isn't through JNI but rather I have a set of int that are written to a storage by a Java library. There exists a C version of that library but it uses unsigned int. I want to use the C library to read the int persisted by the Java library.If the C unsigned int is 32 bits then the Java int contains the exact same binary value, even if it is negative. Assuming you want to convert it to the equivalent positive value, you are looking for either Integer::toUnsignedString or Integer::toUnsignedLong. If you want to pass the value to a C library using JNI then it already has the desired binary value.
In response to your edit, again, if the C library is using 32-bit ints (it might not be), then it will simply get the unsigned value. So, if the Java code wrote the value -2 (0xfffffffe) then the C library would read in 4294967294, always assuming they are using the same endianness for the numbers.
(A Java ObjectOutputStream or DataOutputStream will write the bytes in big-endian order, and on many architectures C would use little-endian, but presumably the Java and C versions of the library are designed to use the same endianness.)This depends on your library.
Assumung the C and Java versions of the library use the same (file) format, there are four possibilities for negative numbers/numbers out of signed int bounds:
The library could just not allow storing negative/too high numbers.
What choice is used is up to your library. You might want to consult the documentation or just try it out.
It might also be undefined/implementation defined behaviour, a combination of those cases (different between the C and Java implementations) or change between versions of your libraryUsing bit shifting to guess UTF-8 encodingI am writing a program like file(1) that can guess if a text file contains ascii character, ISO-8859-1 characters, or UTF-8.
Ive already programmed it to guess ascii and ISO, only UTF-8 remains. My problem is I am supposed to be using bit-shifting, and while I know the very basics of bit-shifting, I am having trouble figuring it out how to use it for guessing UTF-8 characters.
I am of course not asking for a solution, but if someone could push me in the right direction, I would be pleased!
I am writing in C.Any solution to this is going to be heuristic-based. But in general, UTF-8 has the following byte sequences (available in man utf8):
So your heuristic can look a few bytes ahead, and see if the bytes follow one of four patterns (UTF-8 in theory supports byte sequences stretching to six characters, but in practice only uses four):
All we're doing is shifting the bits to the right and checking if they're equal to the bits in the UTF-8 byte sequences.Does a mutex locked thread use cpu time?I try to change a sleep() function in a thread to pthread_cond_timedwait() so suspension can be stopped from another thread if it is needed. My question is about efficiency. Because as I understand when using sleep() the thread is passivly waiting so no additional cpu usage occures. What does the scheduler do with a mutex locked thread? Is it the same as with sleep() or is it actively waiting in this case? Because I use potentially a lot of threads which would be suspended for a long period of time (minutes, hours or maybe days) I fear I might use unnecessary cpu time.Here's the best way to distill down the behavior of pretty much all multi-threaded OSes without regard for sweeping generalizations:
A thread is usually represented as a data structure that stores context. The scheduler keeps a list of thread structs which are currently "runnable." If a thread is taken off the "runnable" list, it will not be scheduled to run on any available CPU.
A mutex is usually implemented as a reference to a thread struct which owns the mutex, and a list of threads which are waiting for it. A thread cannot be on both a wait list, and the scheduler's runnable list simultaneously. Thus a thread waiting on a mutex cannot be scheduled, and cannot take CPU resources.
There are caveats and details. For example on a multi CPU system, the mutex implementation might actually allow for a short period of "spin waiting" before being placed on a wait queue. This covers cases where a lock might only be held briefly by another thread on another CPU, in which case a full context switch might be more expensive. In general though, you can assume a blocked thread will not be runnable from the scheduler's point of view.No, waiting on a mutex doesn't use CPU time. Mutexes are implemented in the kernel, so it puts the thread to sleep until the mutex is unlocked.How can I get time taken from http request ESP32I am currently trying to get the time an HTTP request(downloading 1 file) needs to get done using ESP32 but the API has no option for it. I can set a timeout but I dont have the true time it needed to get done.
I tried to get the difference time after and before the perform function  esp_err_t err = esp_http_client_perform(client); as so :
But the value returned seems to be way too much for what I am doing compared (downloading a small file & I have done it with a curl on my Linux machine it took only 20ms)  :
I assume the  esp_http_client_perform(client) function is probably doing many other things than just downloading the file and that is why I do not get only the time needed to download the file.
Do you have any idea what I can do to get only the time needed to download the file?
Thank you very much for your help.Hi Mate I suggest to use the Network Time Protocol. It’s a standard Internet Protocol (IP) for synchronizing the computer clocks to some reference over a network.
The protocol can be used to synchronize all networked devices to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
NTP sets the clocks of computers to UTC, any local time zone offset or day light saving time offset is applied by the client. In this manner clients can synchronize to servers regardless of location and time zone differences.
The server is using the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) on port 123.
A client then transmits a request packet to a NTP server.
In response to this request the NTP server sends a time stamp packet.
sets the UTC time (basically the Greenwich time with no light saving time offset), if you wish, set your own offset in seconds from the Greenwich time.
Great article here: https://www.instructables.com/Getting-Time-From-Internet-Using-ESP8266-NTP-Clock/
If you get two readings and you make the difference between the two, you have the duration of the operation and, (very important since we are talking about network operations), the time reference for a following analysis.
I hope this helps All the bestFirstly, calling gettimeofday() and calculating the difference is IMHO too much effort for such a simple task. It's easier to call esp_timer_get_time() to get microseconds since boot and calculate durations based on that.
Secondly, the custom event handler which you've given your HTTP client (_http_event_handler) gets called for each relevant event in the HTTP download, so use that to see how long each step takes. I've converted to milliseconds because it seems the correct unit scale to measure download events.
Finally, note that if you're doing an HTTPS download then the poor little ESP32 will take a significant time performing the TLS handshake crypto calculations.