How do I request characters from a user, and then print the size of the characters? I'm very new to C, any help would be greatly appreciated.
This only prints 1 as the size.
I read in another post that the problem was that initializing character by char character; would only let me store 1 single character. So, I modified it to be an array:
The problem now is that by doing character[10], it prints out that the size is 10. How would I go about fixing this?sizeof(character)/sizeof(char) gives you the size of the array you declared, not the size of what the user has entered.
So, when you do sizeof(character)/sizeof(char), you get the actual size (i.e. number of elements) of your array. What you are trying to achieve can be done with strlen(). But since you can't use <string.h>, you can write it yourself:
strlen2() counts the number of characters of your string, it stops counting when it encounters the first \0 character (null terminator).
Your code is prone to bugs. If the user enters a string more than 9 characters long (don't forget the \0 is added at the end of your string), you'll get a buffer overflow, because character is only supposed to contain 10 characters. You would want to limit the number of characters read into your string:
The first one is the array in which you want to store user input
The second one is the size of your array
The third one is the file stream you want to read from
It returns NULL on failure so you should check that as well.Well if you can't use any headers, maybe you can create a custom strlen() function.
strlen() pretty much counts all character until the '\0' character is found. '\0' is used to signify the end of string and is automatically appended by scanf("%s",...).
And if you want to be pedantic, you might even want to check the return value of scanf(), for input errors and also apply a limit to the character to be read to avoid a buffer overflow.
REVERSE_WORD in c using pointersi have try this code made by me but no output and there's no errors?
Also, given size = 6, size - 1 will be equal to 5, and that is the NULL terminator position since array indexing in C start from 0. Perhaps use a C function such as strlen() to calculate the length rather than hard coding it.
This is clear and symmetric, once it works, while your i-- and j++ are far apart.
strlen() should be used, probably, but these lines show how you can and have to control not just the total size but especially the last byte of the char array.
Without the correct length, reverse() would have to do a strlen() first, because it has to know how far away to put the first letter.
This *(v+j) = *(p+i) is more or less v[j] = p[i] and does not really take advantage of pointers, on the contrary.
So revw is maybe not the best name inside the function; revw_first_backwards is meant...or fill_start. But before I fill backwards I do the one additional write to the right side to terminate the string: array notation using a pointer: revw[1] = '\0'.Allocate a big-chunk of memory and manage it afterwardsSo, I'm currently going thorugh the book "Crafting Interpreters", one of the challenges is to allocate a big chunk of memory (only once) in the beginning of the program and manage it.
So far i've written this piece of code, but I'm not quite shure that I'm in the right direction.
I'm able to allocate memory for the variables in main, and when freeing the chunks are added back to the free list but some of them get lost, I guess it's because when I assigned memory using the
malloc_ im overwriting memory. What will be the right approach for this kind of problem? SIGUSR1 Signal is not triggeringI'm starting to learn signals and how to trigger them. I have this simple code that triggers a signal using SIGUSR1, but when I run the code, the only thing that gets printed is the "Starting..." line. Nothing else gets printed. Am I doing something wrong?
signal only registers a signal handler - the function to be called when the process receives a signal. From within your program, you can use raise to send a signal to the calling process.
If you are in a POSIX environment, you should take a look at man 7 signal-safety for a list of functions that are safe to call from within signal handlers (additional information in this answer). printf is not included in this list - nor are a lot standard library functions. Its better to use an operation which is atomic with regards to signals, such as write (or reentrant, such as strlen).
A cursory example of using raise, which returns 0 on success, and nonzero on error.
I want to store each digit, in the array. But when I enter 123 and print the array, I get 50 51 52. How can I fix this issue?Characters are numbers too. In this case, you have ASCII codes, or at least the ASCII subset of UTF-8 encoded Unicode code points. The integer '1' is indeed 49, '2' is 50, etc. When you store them in your array, it stores the numerical value of the ASCII code for that number. If you want the number itself, you can do something like:
That's not right.  It's the maximum value of the unsigned integer type uintptr_t, which will normally be a 32- or 64-bit integer according to the size of a pointer on this system.  So you can get the desired pointer by casting this value to a pointer, or cast the pointer to uintptr_t and compare with UINTPTR_MAX.
Caveats for future readers: This is only appropriate for the specific case OP mentions: where you have already identified 0xffffffff etc as the values produced by some specific bug that you are trying to track down.  In general, it is not possible to test at runtime whether a given pointer points to a valid object or not; you have to design your program so that only valid pointers are used in the first place.
Also, any time you talk about a pointer that doesn't point to a specific object (and is not NULL), you are outside the realm of standard C, so all of this is undefined behavior per the standard (or at best implementation-defined behavior).  You are reliant on the behavior of your particular compiler, but it's reasonable to expect them to handle this case in the "natural" way.Please do not use this, see comments for reference:
It takes the size of the char * (usually 4 bytes on x86) and multiplies by 8 to convert it to bits (32 bits), then, it shifts 1 << 32, and subtracts 1 making it 0xffffff...
The problem here is that although I check that send() doesn't send a NULL pointer, the pointer that send() sends ends up being NULL. Maybe it's from recv(). I don't have the slightest idea.
Ignore uslist_return(...). It's just a function that returns a pointer. And the utmp is the same type (but not a pointer) as usr.
Edit: The server sends a pointer in if brackets and a struct in else brackets. The problem occures when the server sends the pointer usr and the client gets it and saves it in the pointer tmp (same type pointers). I Haven't check the else case yet, due to this.
Edit 2: Thanks Martin James for commenting that. It appears that recv() returns -1. Perror shows that the error is Bad Address. I don't know what this is.It appears you are confusing a count of users, say, 27, with the size in byte of the variable usr, say, 8 bytes. The send() argument len is number of bytes you are sending.  If each record is uniform in size then it's count * sizeof(record), otherwise you need to sum the size of each record.
Also, sending pointers, as you allude to, does not usually make sense as server and client use different address spaces.
I am trying to add a time function so I can divide my flops by the seconds it takes to run this block of code. This is what I have so far, which is my pseudo code
So after looking at the documentation, I have this, is this correct? Am I miss-understanding something entirely? Any help is greatly appreciated thank you!
Checking the return value of a function into another functionI am quite unsure how I would check the return value of a function into another function.
Essentially, I want to check the return value of f1 inside f2. Depending on return value of f1, f2 will return count or 0.
I don't think I should call f1 again inside f2 (or should I?), but I know I need to store the return value of f1 somewhere inside a.c without calling it again(?). I tried putting #include "b.c" atop a.c, so I could just do
Reconstruct USB audio packets with usbmon only (and play them)I am trying to use usbmon to capture audio data via USB. I was able to build a binary to hex tool that works like xxd. As I only need the data (I have to import the data to Audacity as raw audio), is there any other way to isolate the useful data directly in its binary form, without needing to convert it to hex? (then back to binary)
I can't seem to wrap my head around how to separate data from other URB signals in binary.
For this project I can not use tcpdump/libpcap/wireshark or any other packet sniffing software.
Any help is greatly appreciated.Why does C let me write this? 
Is it correct write the program like this?
Select system callI have been doing socket programming and the following is the select system call. If this program doesn't get an input within 5 seconds it will terminate else it will execute the command in terminal. I don't understand which part of program is making the given message execute as a command in terminal. For example, if we type ls and give enter it executes the ls command in terminal but I don't understand what part of code is responsible to execute the ls command. Here is the code.
program exitI don't understand what part of code is responsible to execute the ls command.
No part of the code is executing the command.
The command is immediately exiting when input is available. It will not read the input. Instead, the command shell where you started the program will read the input after the program exited and process the input - i.e. shell will execute ls.Timing Kernel Execution with CPU TimersI've been trying to measure a cuda kernel execution time using the cpu metric as shown in the nvidia website, however I'm having an issue using the myCPUTimer() function
after compiling i get this error  undefined reference to 'myCPUTimer'
and I can't seem to find any documentation online on how to use this function.I guess you are referring to this.
the generic host time-stamp function myCPUTimer()
That function is not provided for you, and you can't use it as-is.  The "generic" there means it is some function you will use and provide, that is perhaps platform (i.e. OS) specific.
You have to provide a function like that yourself.  It is an imaginary function in that context.  It doesn't exist in the real world, exactly like that.
You can find many questions here on SO about how to do host timing of CUDA kernels, such as this one.
Which would return a "timestamp" in microseconds, into an unsigned long long variable, using a fairly high resolution CPU based timer.Making Anagrams, C problem, nonsensical output [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.Can someone explain what I got wrong? Pls.I want key `A` to be held for at least three seconds without a break. Make sure that is the caseI want key A to be held for at least three seconds without a break. If the key press is interrupted, the three-second period should apply again.
This is my previous program. Unfortunately, while the timer() procedure is running, the program does not notice anything about the release of the button or pressing it again.
My question to you is: what can I do?
I want to stay in C.
I recommend that you use the function WaitForSingleObject. That function allows you to wait for new console input to become available, and also allows you to specify a timeout, which should be 3 seconds in your case.
Depending on the return value of that function, you will know whether new console input has occurred or whether the timeout has expired.
However, this solution has one problem. While holding down the key, the key will automatically repeat, generating new input events. Therefore, the timeout of 3 seconds will probably never expire (unless you have configured your operating system to have a very long repeat delay).
Therefore, you will have to ignore these key down events and call WaitForSingleObject again, but this time not with a timeout of 3 seconds again. Instead, the new timeout should be the remaining time of the original 3 seconds.
In your code, you are using the ISO C function time. However, this function has a precision of only one second, which may not be accurate enough. Therefore, you may want to use the platform-specific function GetTickCount instead.
I believe I was able to get your program to work, by making the changes mentioned above. Here is my code:
After the user holds down the key A for three seconds, it will display that character on the screen. Afterwards, a new timeout will not be triggered until the user releases the key and then presses it again.C - Linux module: wait_event_interruptible inside critical sectionI'm building a Linux kernel module that allows exchanging messages across threads. I think it is not clear to me what is meant by process and interrupt context. Within a kernel module when can we run in interrupt context?
In fact, I was wondering if wait_event_interruptible can be safely used inside a critical section implemented with mutex_lock / mutex_unlock.Why is the following C code not returning 0 after the linked list is free'd from memory?This function is supposed to delete linked list in C only if it is empty. The ll_length() function is confirmed working. If the linked list is successfully deleted, we are to return 0. If it is not deleted, return negative one. This program is returning -1. It enters the first if statement but not the second. What is wrong
the value of the pointer ll is not changed. The pointer was passed by value. That is the function free deals with a copy of the value of the passed pointer. So the substatement of the next if statement
if you want to change the passed pointer in the caller of the function then you need to pass it by reference. For example
How to add a custom library (e.g. glew) to mingw-w64?I'm using windows and my goal is to add the glew library (http://glew.sourceforge.net/index.html) to mingw. I have downloaded mingw-w64 via GitHub (https://github.com/mstorsjo/llvm-mingw/releases/tag/20210423). It comes with a "bin", "lib" and "include" folder. Within the "bin" folder I do "make" to execute my project's makefile which inlcudes the line
I have copied "glew32.lib" to "mingw/lib", "GL/glew.h" and "GL/wglew.h" to "mingw/include/GL" and "bin/glew32.dll" to "mingw/bin".
In my source code i have included the header file with
How do you add custom libraries like glew to mingw?When using a library use the -I compiler flag to tell the compiler where to find the include files (in your case the path containing the GL folder) and the -L linker flag to tell the linker where to find the libraries.
To link with the library use the -l flag. The library itself is a a lib*.a file (or lib*.dll.a for shared libraries). For the -l flag the library is specified without prefix and suffix, so if your library is called libglew.a the flag will be -lglew.
It is also possible to specified the full path to the lib*.a file instead of -L and -l flags, and with MinGW, if you have the .dll file you can even try to specify the path of the .dll file and the linker will know what to do.how can I implement a 5 card reverse Fisher–Yates_shuffle in C?I'm using this as a guide but I think something is wrong with my implementation.
I'm trying to shuffle the first 5 cards of a deck using the whole deck as a pool to shuffle from, but only shuffling the first 5 cards.
You shouldn't need the while-loop in ShuffleDeck(), just use random = cardIndex + GetRandomNumber(NUM_CARDS_IN_DECK - cardIndex) and swap unconditionally. –
This acctually fixed my problem.printf Function not giving output in CI am an absolute newbie, and I am learning to code.
Can someone help me with this — I was just trying to incorporate all simple data types in one line (for reference) and after I run the program there is no output whatsoever, it just exits! It didn't happen when I had fewer data types in the line.
P.S. This might be the dumbest ever question ever asked on Stack Overflow, but please forgive if I am dumb/silly :)Your format is wrong:
characterGrade has type char and you want to print it using %s format which requires char * parameter. It has to be %c instead:
"%s passed out of college in %d and had a grade of %c i.e. a score of %f\n"Unable to compile GTK4 on Fedora with Hello World example Despite having all the requisite packagesI have read the install instructions on GTK for GTK4, which I used
As I see, I should have all the requisite packages installed and I am unsure why the compiler cannot pull the gtk library. Any help would be awesome.Alright I found a strange solution.
For whatever reason, this did not work using their pasted compile code, however when I switched to the below, it worked just fine.
gcc `pkg-config --cflags gtk4` hello.c -o hello `pkg-config --libs gtk4`How dangerous is it to access an array out of bounds?How dangerous is accessing an array outside of its bounds (in C)? It can sometimes happen that I read from outside the array (I now understand I then access memory used by some other parts of my program or even beyond that) or I am trying to set a value to an index outside of the array. The program sometimes crashes, but sometimes just runs, only giving unexpected results. 
Now what I would like to know is, how dangerous is this really? If it damages my program, it is not so bad. If on the other hand it breaks something outside my program, because I somehow managed to access some totally unrelated memory, then it is very bad, I imagine.
I read a lot of 'anything can happen', 'segmentation might be the least bad problem', 'your hard disk might turn pink and unicorns might be singing under your window', which is all nice, but what is really the danger?
Can reading values from way outside the array damage anything
apart from my program? I would imagine just looking at things does
not change anything, or would it for instance change the 'last time
opened' attribute of a file I happened to reach?
Can setting values way out outside of the array damage anything apart from my program? 
As far as the ISO C standard (the official definition of the language) is concerned, accessing an array outside its bounds has "undefined behavior". 
behavior, upon use of a nonportable or erroneous program construct or of erroneous data, for which this International Standard imposes no requirements
So that's the theory. What's the reality?
In the "best" case, you'll access some piece of memory that's either owned by your currently running program (which might cause your program to misbehave), or that's not owned by your currently running program (which will probably cause your program to crash with something like a segmentation fault). Or you might attempt to write to memory that your program owns, but that's marked read-only; this will probably also cause your program to crash.
That's assuming your program is running under an operating system that attempts to protect concurrently running processes from each other. If your code is running on the "bare metal", say if it's part of an OS kernel or an embedded system, then there is no such protection; your misbehaving code is what was supposed to provide that protection. In that case, the possibilities for damage are considerably greater, including, in some cases, physical damage to the hardware (or to things or people nearby).
Even in a protected OS environment, the protections aren't always 100%. There are operating system bugs that permit unprivileged programs to obtain root (administrative) access, for example. Even with ordinary user privileges, a malfunctioning program can consume excessive resources (CPU, memory, disk), possibly bringing down the entire system. A lot of malware (viruses, etc.) exploits buffer overruns to gain unauthorized access to the system.
(One historical example: I've heard that on some old systems with core memory, repeatedly accessing a single memory location in a  tight loop could literally cause that chunk of memory to melt. Other possibilities include destroying a CRT display, and moving the read/write head of a disk drive with the harmonic frequency of the drive cabinet, causing it to walk across a table and fall onto the floor.)
And there's always Skynet to worry about.
The bottom line is this: if you could write a program to do something bad deliberately, it's at least theoretically possible that a buggy program could do the same thing accidentally.
In practice, it's very unlikely that your buggy program running on a MacOS X system is going to do anything more serious than crash. But it's not possible to completely prevent buggy code from doing really bad things.In general, Operating Systems of today (the popular ones anyway) run all applications in protected memory regions using a virtual memory manager.  It turns out that it is not terribly EASY (per se) to simply read or write to a location that exists in REAL space outside the region(s) that have been assigned / allocated to your process.
Reading will almost never directly damage another process, however it can indirectly damage a process if you happen to read a KEY value used to encrypt, decrypt, or validate a program / process.  Reading out of bounds can have somewhat adverse / unexpected affects on your code if you are making decisions based on the data you are reading
The only way your could really DAMAGE something by writing to a loaction accessible by a memory address is if that memory address that you are writing to is actually a hardware register (a location that actually is not for data storage but for controlling some piece of hardware) not a RAM location.  In all fact, you still wont normally damage something unless you are writing some one time programmable location that is not re-writable (or something of that nature).
Generally running from within the debugger runs the code in debug mode.  Running in debug mode does TEND to (but not always) stop your code faster when you have done something considered out of practice or downright illegal.
Never use macros, use data structures that already have array index bounds checking built in, etc.
I should add that the above information is really only for systems using an operating system with memory protection windows.  If writing code for an embedded system or even a system utilizing an operating system (real-time or other) that does not have memory protection windows (or virtual addressed windows) that one should practice a lot more caution in reading and writing to memory.  Also in these cases SAFE and SECURE coding practices should always be employed to avoid security issues.Not checking bounds can lead to to ugly side effects, including security holes. One of the ugly ones is arbitrary code execution. In classical example: if you have an fixed size array, and use strcpy() to put a user-supplied string there, the user can give you a string that overflows the buffer and overwrites other memory locations, including code address where CPU should return when your function finishes.
Which means your user can send you a string that will cause your program to essentially call exec("/bin/sh"), which will turn it into shell, executing anything he wants on your system, including harvesting all your data and turning your machine into botnet node.
See Smashing The Stack For Fun And Profit for details on how this can be done.
I read a lot of 'anything can happen', 'segmentation might be the least bad problem', 'your harddisk might turn pink and unicorns might be singing under your window', which is all nice, but what is really the danger?
Lets put it that way: load a gun. Point it outside the window without any particular aim and fire. What is the danger?
The issue is that you do not know. If your code overwrites something that crashes your program you are fine because it will stop it into a defined state. However if it does not crash then the issues start to arise. Which resources are under control of your program and what might it do to them? I know at least one major issue that was caused by such an overflow. The issue was in a seemingly meaningless statistics function that messed up some unrelated conversion table for a production database. The result was some very expensive cleanup afterwards. Actually it would have been much cheaper and easier to handle if this issue would have formatted the hard disks ... with other words: pink unicorns might be your least problem.
The idea that your operating system will protect you is optimistic. If possible try to avoid writing out of bounds.Not running your program as root or any other privileged user won't harm any of your system, so generally this might be a good idea.
By writing data to some random memory location you won't directly "damage" any other program running on your computer as each process runs in it's own memory space.
If you try to access any memory not allocated to your process the operating system will stop your program from executing with a segmentation fault.
So directly (without running as root and directly accessing files like /dev/mem) there is no danger that your program will interfere with any other program running on your operating system.
Nevertheless - and probably this is what you have heard about in terms of danger - by blindly writing random data to random memory locations by accident you sure can damage anything you are able to damage. 
For example your program might want to delete a specific file given by a file name stored somewhere in your program. If by accident you just overwrite the location where the file name is stored you might delete a very different file instead.NSArrays in Objective-C are assigned a specific block of memory.  Exceeding the bounds of the array means that you would be accessing memory that is not assigned to the array.  This means:
This memory can have any value.  There's no way of knowing if the data is valid based on your data type.
This memory may contain sensitive information such as private keys or other user credentials.
The memory address may be invalid or protected.
The memory can have a changing value because it's being accessed by another program or thread.
Other things use memory address space, such as memory-mapped ports.
Writing data to unknown memory address can crash your program, overwrite OS memory space, and generally cause the sun to implode.
From the aspect of your program you always want to know when your code is exceeding the bounds of an array.  This can lead to unknown values being returned, causing your application to crash or provide invalid data.You may want to try using the memcheck tool in Valgrind when you test your code -- it won't catch individual array bounds violations within a stack frame, but it should catch many other sorts of memory problem, including ones that would cause subtle, wider problems outside the scope of a single function.
Memcheck is a memory error detector. It can detect the following problems that are common in C and C++ programs.
Accessing memory you shouldn't, e.g. overrunning and underrunning heap blocks, overrunning the top of the stack, and accessing memory after it has been freed.
Using undefined values, i.e. values that have not been initialised, or that have been derived from other undefined values.
Overlapping src and dst pointers in memcpy and related functions.
Though, as Kaz's answer says, it's not a panacea, and doesn't always give the most helpful output, especially when you're using exciting access patterns.If you ever do systems level programming or embedded systems programming, very bad things can happen if you write to random memory locations. Older systems and many micro-controllers use memory mapped IO, so writing to a memory location that maps to a peripheral register can wreak havoc, especially if it is done asynchronously. 
An example is programming flash memory. Programming mode on the memory chips is enabled by writing a specific sequence of values to specific locations inside the address range of the chip. If another process were to write to any other location in the chip while that was going on, it would cause the programming cycle to fail.
In some cases the hardware will wrap addresses around (most significant bits/bytes of address are ignored) so writing to an address beyond the end of the physical address space will actually result in data being written right in the middle of things.
And finally, older CPUs like the MC68000 can locked up to the point that only a hardware reset can get them going again. Haven't worked on them for a couple of decades but I believe it's when it encountered a bus error (non-existent memory) while trying to handle an exception, it would simply halt until the hardware reset was asserted.
My biggest recommendation is a blatant plug for a product, but I have no personal interest in it and I am not affiliated with them in any way - but based on a couple of decades of C programming and embedded systems where reliability was critical, Gimpel's PC Lint will not only detect those sort of errors, it will make a better C/C++ programmer out of you by constantly harping on you about bad habits. 
I'd also recommend reading the MISRA C coding standard, if you can snag a copy from someone.  I haven't seen any recent ones but in ye olde days they gave a good explanation of why you should/shouldn't do the things they cover.
Dunno about you, but about the 2nd or 3rd time I get a coredump or hangup from any application, my opinion of whatever company produced it goes down by half. The 4th or 5th time and whatever the package is becomes shelfware and I drive a wooden stake through the center of the package/disc it came in just to make sure it never comes back to haunt me.I'm working with a compiler for a DSP chip which deliberately generates code that accesses one past the end of an array out of C code which does not!
This is because the loops are structured so that the end of an iteration prefetches some data for the next iteration. So the datum prefetched at the end of the last iteration is never actually used.
Writing C code like that invokes undefined behavior, but that is only a formality from a standards document which concerns itself with maximal portability.
More often that not, a program which accesses out of bounds is not cleverly optimized. It is simply buggy. The code fetches some garbage value and, unlike the optimized loops of the aforementioned compiler, the code then uses the value in subsequent computations, thereby corrupting theim.
It is worth catching bugs like that, and so it is worth making the behavior undefined for even just that reason alone: so that the run-time can produce a diagnostic message like "array overrun in line 42 of main.c".
On systems with virtual memory, an array could happen to be allocated such that the address which follows is in an unmapped area of virtual memory. The access will then bomb the program.
As an aside, note that in C we are permitted to create a pointer which is one past the end of an array. And this pointer has to compare greater than any pointer to the interior of an array.
This means that a C implementation cannot place an array right at the end of memory, where the one plus address would wrap around and look smaller than other addresses in the array.
Nevertheless, access to uninitialized or out of bounds values are sometimes a valid optimization technique, even if not maximally portable. This is for instance why the Valgrind tool does not report accesses to uninitialized data when those accesses happen, but only when the value is later used in some way that could affect the outcome of the program. You get a diagnostic like "conditional branch in xxx:nnn depends on uninitialized value" and it can be sometimes hard to track down where it originates. If all such accesses were trapped immediately, there would be a lot of false positives arising from compiler optimized code as well as correctly hand-optimized code.
Speaking of which, I was working with some codec from a vendor which was giving off these errors when ported to Linux and run under Valgrind. But the vendor convinced me that only several bits of the value being used actually came from uninitialized memory, and those bits were carefully avoided by the logic.. Only the good bits of the value were being used and Valgrind doesn't have the ability to track down to the individual bit. The uninitialized material came from reading a word past the end of a bit stream of encoded data, but the code knows how many bits are in the stream and will not use more bits than there actually are.  Since the access beyond the end of the bit stream array does not cause any harm on the DSP architecture (there is no virtual memory after the array, no memory-mapped ports, and the address does not wrap) it is a valid optimization technique.
"Undefined behavior" does not really mean much, because according to ISO C, simply including a header which is not defined in the C standard, or calling a function which is not defined in the program itself or the C standard, are examples of undefined behavior. Undefined behavior doesn't mean "not defined by anyone on the planet" just "not defined by the ISO C standard". But of course, sometimes undefined behavior really is absolutely not defined by anyone.Besides your own program, I don't think you will break anything, in the worst case you will try to read or write from a memory address that corresponds to a page that the kernel didn't assign to your proceses, generating the proper exception and being killed (I mean, your process).Arrays with two or more dimensions pose a consideration beyond those mentioned in other answers.  Consider the following functions:
The way gcc will processes the first function will not allow for the possibility that an attempt to write arr[0][i] might affect the value of arr[1][0], and the generated code is incapable of returning anything other than a hardcoded value of 1.  Although the Standard defines the meaning of array[index] as precisely equivalent to (*((array)+(index))), gcc seems to interpret the notion of array bounds and pointer decay differently in cases which involve using [] operator on values of array type, versus those which use explicit pointer arithmetic.Creating a simple menubar, menu and menu item in C using GTK4I created a simple C application using GTK4 that has a window, a menubar, a menu, and a menu item. I would like the menu to read "File" and the menu item underneath File to read "Connect". How can I code the menus and menubar so that I have a menu File->Connect?
First let us start with your connect callback function, its prototype should look like this:
static void connect ( GSimpleAction *simple_action, GVariant *parameter, gpointer *data 
After that, you have one small problem, and you are good to go.
This is your first parameter called "Connect".
And here on this line:
The second parameter is "app.connect", now if you compare "Connect"with "app.connect" you will notice the mistake.
It is case-sensitive, just replace "Connect" with "connect" and you should be fine.
Now to your question, you need another menu for that, try to understand the following Demo:
if you need to know more about GMenu or how Actions work, Click hereHow do I check each row, col, squares of a 9x9 sudoku grid of 81 values 1D array for duplicates in C?I'm new to C so sorry in advance if it is silly. So I would like to check each row, column and squares where each of them has 9 values which will be between 0 and 9 (like a sudoku) and each row/col/sqr is a set so row 1-9 is set 0-8, col 1-9 is set 9-17 and sqr 1-9 is set 18-26. This is the output I want after entering the values for the array (starting from 'set 6 (row 7)...'). I don't want to find the duplicates of the zeroes, but the other numbers. I tried to do it in a lot of ways but couldn't get it right. Thanks!
These are the arrays entered (gridded for better showcase).
I also have an insertion sort function for the three check functions and have a main function.How to pass strings from PHP via FFI to c / tensorflowA few words about context
I'm working on a PHP library which uses the PHP FFI to make tensorflow usable in PHP. One part of that library has to pass strings to tensorflow's c library. To be able to do that, there are these definitions in the c header file:
It would theoretically be possible that this issue happens because of my logic which converts the string from tensorflow back to php. However, tensorflow has an internal operation called StringJoin which expects two strings as input an joins them. If I use that operation for the strings Hello and  World, I get 4HelloR World. As there is a the new char R inbetween the joined words, I expect that the issue lies with my encoding and not somewhere else.
I'm looking forward to any kind of input
This is kind of a longshot question, because I don't expect many people working with PHP FFI yet, but maybe (hopefully!) there is someone with more knowledge about strings in c which is able to help.what is the difference between two malloc allocations [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.is there a difference between these two allocations given that first allocation just allocates 4-bytes and the other one is for 32768 bytes?
is both these allocations happens from the heap space allocated for this calling process?
On 64 bit machine, every user space is suppose to have 2^64 byes of memory, how much heap space allocated out of it, and what if requested allocation (from malloc call) is more than that of the heap space allocated for a process.I am trying to implement Depth-first-search using adjacency list representation of graphs. But my code terminates before calling Depth-first-searchC
multiple clients stop and wait with C & UDPI am implementing stop&wait with c and udp socket programming. with one client it works but with more than one client it dosen't work.
I found that frame_recv.sq_no and frame_id have different value when the second client run.
I read questions with same topic, but could not find out the error from my code.Problems with pointer and C [duplicate]This question already has answers here:I'm a beginner at learning c. But I don't know the whether the str is a pointer variable or an array. If str is a pointer variable then why does the first printf works? It prints out the hole string ''Information'', and the second printed out ''ation''.
Code not executing after scanf's [beginner C] [closed]Closed. 
For some reason my program stops after I input the number of minutes. What am I doing wrong? Calling C function from returned pointer in NodeI'm trying to call a function in NodeJS that was returned as a pointer by a function called via ffi. I am not able to retrieve the information
How to convert uint16_t number to ASCII HEX?What is the best way to convert a unsigned 16 bit integer into ASCII HEX? I'm trying to integrate my Arduino with a serial communication protocol that expects the payload as an array of 2 byte ASCII HEX values. I'd like to be able to store each character of the HEX representation in a char array since the full message (with start and stop characters) needs to be CRC checksummed before being transmitted.
For example, to transmit a decimal value of 129, it would expect a string 0081 (0x00 and 0x81). To transmit a decimal value of 35822, it would expect a string of 8BEE.
I mostly work with Python so I'm not very familiar with casting to different data types.
Having issues trying to redirect file to stdin using dup2() and open() and execv()Edit: The issue is that echo does not read from stdin apparently. Thanks @Jonathan Leffler
I have a programming exercise, and my code is below:
Assume that tokens is correct, and that the filename exists, why doesn't the execv() call take in input from the filename given that I redirected it?
Thank you for reading this!!As I noted in a comment, the echo command does not read standard input, so you won't be able to tell whether your input redirection was successful with echo (or with sleep).
Use a command which does read standard input — cat is the easiest example, but tr and sed could be sensible alternatives.Binary reading returning zeroI'm trying to read a binary file and display its contents in the terminal, but this line of code:
It is returning zero, so my loop is stopped, what is the suggestion to solve this problem?
The second parameter is the size of each element to read, and the third is the number of elements.  This means that you're attempting to read up to sizeof(buffer) * positionX bytes, but buffer isn't that big.  As a result, you write past the end of the buffer triggering undefined behavior.
Since you're reading positionX individual characters, you want 1 for the member size:
size_t readed = fread(buffer, 1, positionX, file);Where is header and payload information about a calloc stored in heap?I want to know how this structure & calloc are allocated in heap. I mean how glibc keep information in memory like this is structure this is its data type so on.
One possible implementation of memory management stores its management data before the memory block returned to you.
You might want to look in even lower memory bytes. Expect some pointers there.
To understand the entries, you will need to obtain the sources of your library and to study them. Then you might know what the value 33 represents.where is 767,
Bit P is set, which means Previous chunk is used.
Bit M is not set, which means the region is not Mmap()-ed.
Bit A is not set, which means the chunk is in the main Area.
The rest is size. 0b100000 is 32 - the allocated chunk has 32 bytes. 8 bytes for a size_t number to store that 33 and malloc_usable_size will return 32 - 8 = 24.Find the index of the largest element in an array and find elements N indexes to the right and left of that max elementI am writing some c coding involving some array manipulation.
I am trying to achieve the following:
With a given input array, create a new_array consisting of only the first 10 elements
Find the index_of_largest element in the new_array
Take the 2 elements to the left of index_of_largest and 3 to the right and put them all in a new_array2
I am able to separate the initial array (1) am able to find the index of the largest element (2). I am not sure how to solve (3) moving forward from my current point.
The largest index will always been in a position in the array so that it will be possible to get the elements to around it. (For example the largest value will not be the first or last index)
I also think I should add a condition so that if there are multiple max values, we take the first one that occurs.
I will in the future wrap all this in a function call but sorry for the messy code at the moment.You're using %f format specifier, this is for floats and doubles.  max is an int, you need to use %d or similar:
For more information on printf format specifiers, see the man pageI am confused about the reason why my code is not working?I wrote this code for a CRC generator and I guess it should have worked fine but it's not giving me the correct results. Eg: when I give input data as 1110011 and CRC generator as 111 it should give the CRC bits as 10 but instead it's giving me 01.
Can someone please tell what is wrong with this code so i can resolve this issue?
program closes if enter key on execution is held down for even slightly too longI'm learning Xlib in C and am looking at this example: https://rosettacode.org/wiki/Draw_a_clock#Clock_in_xlib_.28for_X_windows.29
As the title says, holding down enter for too long when executing causes the program to quit.  And by too long, I mean a tenth of a second - at first I didn't realize this was what was causing it.  Is there a simple way to prevent this, eg, a way to clear or flush or reset the keyboard input beforehand?
Second, but I think related, it seems a lot of the examples I've come across have a complicated way of displaying, updating and closing the window.  Is there a basic, standard way to handle this task, ie, show & update the clock until a key is pressed?Matlab, Simulink, BeagleBone Blue, Counting Steps example, I2C, C code errorI was trying example Simulink code for BeagleBone Blue named Counting Steps Using BeagleBone Blue Hardware. The web side is this.
When I try to send the code to Beagle, I get this error below.
Also, I would like to use I2C bus with BeagleBone Blue and control Beagle with Matlab (2019b) and Simulink. If I add any I2C block to Simulink model and try to send the code to Beagle I get the same error. It seems like the created C code is wrong. Does anybody know how to fix this?
How do I copy this temporary char* variable into my struct for more permanent storage?I'm trying to implement a thread pool, and I'm having quite the bit of trouble with getting the filepaths I'm supposed to work with to be more permanently stored than the temporary instance they're existing inside the OnOpen function from ftw. I'm not allowed to do malloc for every filepath that gets handled.
This is what I have currently to try and get OnOpen to not give temporary data to my threads, and I am confused as to the reason for it to crash on memcpy.
I'd love to know how to get the data to be secure from a temp variable being edited without creating a superfluous array of char* that I perform memcpy with.
You are not allowed to allocate new memory dynamically for every new thread job, you must re-use previously allocated memory!
(But growing a container is OK as long as it is not just one element at a time)
Here below I'll add some stuff that is related to the code that I'm having trouble with, namely the threadpool and how I use the task struct, which might be useful in getting a better understanding of what can be done and how I can go about it:

My threadpool consists of 8 threads, which is also the size of my task Queue.
I used to have .arg = strcpy(temp, path) but as temp is temporary, I got bad data printed in the hashFunc.
Each thread is supposed to have its own copy of the Task struct to work with, so as to not risk them interfering with eachother.You do not allocate any memory to store the path
sizeof(path) is giving you length of the pointer not the length of the path. To get length of the string use strlen
memcpy(t.arg, path, sizeof(path)); copies only the number sizeof(char *) bytes, not the the whole string .
This operation is deeply wrong. sizeof(path) returns a size of a pointer variable. It is very unrelated to length of the string.
Just put array of chars into struct Task. Every thread would have it's own copy without interfering with other threads:
If each thread is expected to have its own copy of arg (not whole Task) just use strdup(). It's far more handy than strlen()/malloc()/strcpy() sequence.
Remeber to release the memeory with free(t.arg) when thread finishes it's job.set flag in signal handlerIn C++11, what is the safest (and perferrably most efficient) way to execute unsafe code on a signal being caught, given a type of request-loop (as part of a web request loop)? For example, on catching a SIGUSR1 from a linux command line: kill -30 <process pid>
It is acceptable for the 'unsafe code' to be run on the next request being fired, and no information is lost if the signal is fired multiple times before the unsafe code is run.
where I know there could be problems in the main loop testing+setting the globalFlag boolean.
The if (globalFlag) test will be run in a fairly tight loop, and an 'occasional' false negative is acceptable. However, I suspect there's no optimisation over Basile Starynkevitch's solution anyway?You should declare your flag
See e.g. sig_atomic_t, this question  and don't forget the volatile qualifier. (It may have been spelled sigatomic_t for C).
On Linux (specifically) you could use signalfd(2) to get a filedescriptor for the signal, and that fd can be poll(2)-ed by your event loop.
Some event loop libraries (libevent, libev ...) know how to handle signals.
And there is also the trick of setting up a pipe (see pipe(2) and pipe(7) for more) at initialization, and just write(2)-ing some byte on it in the signal handler. The event loop would poll and read that pipe. Such a trick is recommended by Qt.
Read also signal(7) and signal-safety(7) (it explains what are the limited set of functions or syscalls usable inside a signal handler)....
BTW, correctness is more important than efficiency. In general, you get few signals (e.g. most programs get a signal once every second at most, not every millisecond).Can I be sure that reallocating less memory will always find enough of it?Let's say I have just malloced x bytes of memory, after doing something with them I want to realloc y < x bytes. Can I make that and yet be sure that my realloc will find enough memory? Example,
Should I make sure p_ isn't NULL even though I have reallocated less memory than the original one? I think *alloc functions return NULL when the requested memory exceeds the available one, is the previous code safe to use?Can I be sure that reallocating less memory will always find enough of it?
Can I make that and yet be sure that my realloc will find enough memory?
No, realloc(p, 5); may fail and return NULL.
Should I make sure p_ isn't NULL even though I have reallocated less memory than the original one?
Yes, code, when down-sizing and return is NULL, could continue with the old value pointer - it is still valid.
 think *alloc functions return NULL when the requested memory exceeds the available one, is the previous code safe to use?
Do not assume.  realloc() may return NULL if the new size is larger, the same or smaller than before.
Design consideration:
Returning NULL on realloc() when the size is reduced is plausible when 1) the number of memory handles is met (a system may only allow so many allocations) and calloc() could temporally need another one.  2) The new size is 0.  The details of return value on *alloc(0) have a history and are a bit contentious and not further discussed here.
In any case, as long as the new size is more than zero, a return of NULL implies some resource is at the end.  Occam's razor suggest code proceed to the same error handling as when calloc() returns NULL due to a size growth.Somehow getting a null in my array when i pass a function with parameters that dont involve the array#include <stdio.h>
So i have an array with four element characters. and i pass 4 separate variables into a function that have nothing to do with the array. This function just sets specific numeric values for the variables depending on what two of the variables are.
And when the function returns and i print the array i mentioned before somehow, i have a null character replacing the first element (i.e arr[0]).
Why exactly is this? And how can i let it stop changing the first element into a null, i need to print the rows as it isMATLAB C Binary filesOur company uses STMCUBE IDE to write C programs for STM chips, and the decision has been taken that moving forward, we will use MATLAB.
My question concerns the .bin file produced post build. The chip range we use has quite small internal memory (128kb) and I have noticed that some of the .bin files we have written in MATLAB seem quite large. Does MATLAB produce larger binary files than would be expected if the code were 'hand written', so to speak?CamelCase to snake_case in C without tolowerI want to write a function that converts CamelCase to snake_case without using tolower.
This is what I have so far, but the output is wrong because I overwrite a character in the string 
I get hell_world. I don't know how to get it to work.
This conversion means, aside from converting a character from uppercase to lowercase, inserting a character into the string. This is one way to do it:
iterate from left to right,
if an uppercase character if found, use memmove to shift all characters from this position to the end the string one position to the right, and then assigning the current character the to-be-inserted value,
stop when the null-terminator (\0) has been reached, indicating the end of the string.
Iterating from right to left is also possible, but since the choice is arbitrary, going from left to right is more idiomatic.
The size of the string to move is the length of the  string plus one, to also move the null-terminator (\0).
I am assuming the function isupper is off-limits as well.
The array needs to be large enough to hold the new string, otherwise memmove will perform invalid writes!
The latter is an issue that needs to be dealt with in a serious implementation. The general problem of "writing a result of unknown length" has several solutions. For this case, they may look like this:
First determine how long the resulting string will be, reallocating the array, and only then modifying the string. Requires two passes.
Every time an uppercase character is found, reallocate the string to its current size + 1. Requires only one pass, but frequent reallocations.
Same as 2, but whenever the array is too small, reallocate the array to twice its current size. Requires a single pass, and less frequent (but larger) reallocations. Finally reallocate the array to the length of the string it actually contains.
In this case, I consider option 1 to be the best. Doing two passes is an option if the string length is known, and the algorithm can be split into two distinct parts: find the new length, and modify the string. I can add it to the answer on request.Makefile for UnitTests (universal file)I've been working on a Makefile to automate Unit Tests in C. The main goal is that for any given project that follows the structure of a source and a test directory, make compiles the function and make test compiles and runs the tests.
While the make command works just fine, make test doesn't. In the configuration down under, the dependency of test calls the %.exe target, and not the test_%.exe.
How do I make a succesfull call for any test target, as long as it begins with "test_"?
I've tried to make a wildcard for it but it didn't work. This can be of still lack of knowledge but I hope to find some help here :)
I'm using GNU gcc on MinGW 8.1.0 but also have access to a gcc Ubunutu 7.5.0 (replit.com)There is a bunch of subtle issues here.
First, when your test target depends on a wildcard, its resolution is not intuitive as this is not directly expanded by make. If a matching file does not exist, make will attempt to find the rule with literal * in it:
This will derive test binary names from test source files by converting their suffix from .c to .exe. (As a side note, the target itself should be phony since it does not create a real file).
Still, it did not follow the test rule, but the general source rule. Why is that? Well, that's because when matching the stem (the % part) the directory is prepended to the searched targets. You can see in the output above that when make is Considering target file 'test/UnitTests/test_foo.exe', it will look for a file test/UnitTests/test/UnitTests/test_foo.c, which comes from $(SRCTEST)/test_%.c explicitly mentioning $(SRCTEST) while it is also prepended automatically from the stem. Of course such file does not exist, hence the rule is rejected.
Note that it has now built the test binary from test source as expected.How do I create a flowchart with a getch function?My program is written in C language and it basically has an I/O function to check whether the credentials entered for the username and password are correct (I used a simple if-else statement for this).
I have to add a flowchart with the program and I can't seem to wrap my head around how I would do that. How do I combine a do-while loop with a getch() function and an if-else statement in a flowchart? I have a getch() function to mask the password with an "*" / asterisk.
A flow chart documents the control flow in your program. The challenge is to cope with the very basic control flows operations that this kind of diagram knows.
Operations that follow sequentially are shown in boxes linked with arrows.
There is no standardized loop symbol.  So you need to show the loop using conditionals:
C conditions can call functions such as getch() and perform user input while evaluating the condition. The flow-chart do not allow this; you need to decompose the flow and add extra symbols before the conditional diamond. The while loop then requires you to loop back not just before the diamond, but before these extra symbols, so that the preparation of the conditional evaluation is performed properly.Understanding double-free mitre.org exampleI'm trying to understand the following code example found on mitre:
but they don't explain how. How is it possible?Is casting from char * to other compatibly-aligned pointer types defined behavior in C89?Are explicit casts from char * to other pointer types fully defined behavior according to ANSI C89 if the pointer is guaranteed to meet the alignment requirements of the type you're casting to? Here's an example of what I mean:
This code compiles without warnings and works as expected on my machine but I'm not fully sure if these kinds of casts are defined behavior.
The pointer returned if the allocation succeeds is suitably aligned so that it may be assigned to a pointer to any type of object and then used to access such an object in the space allocated (until the space is explicitly freed or reallocated).
A pointer to an object or incomplete type may be converted to a pointer to a different object type or a different incomplete type. The resulting pointer might not be valid if it is improperly aligned for the type pointed to. It is guaranteed, however, that a pointer to an object of a given alignment may be converted to a pointer to an object of the same alignment or a less strict alignment and back again; the result shall compare equal to the original pointer.
This clearly specifies what happens if you cast from struct some_struct * to char * and back to struct some_struct * but in my case the code responsible for allocation doesn't have access to the full struct definition so it can't initially specify the pointer type to be struct some_struct * so I'm not sure if the rule still applies.
If the code I posted is technically UB, is there another standards-compliant way to modify array elements without knowing their full type? Are there real-world impementations where you would expect it to do something else than ((struct some_struct *)arr)[5].id = 0xffffff;?This code compiles without warnings and works as expected on my machine but I'm not fully sure if these kinds of casts are defined behavior.
In general, the casts have defined behavior, but that behavior can be that the result is not a valid pointer.  Thus dereferencing the result of the cast may produce UB.
Considering only function process(), then, it is possible that the result of its evaluation of (long *)((char *)arr + elem_size*5) is an invalid pointer.  If and only if it is invalid, the attempt to use it to assign a value to the object it hypothetically points to produces UB.
However, main()s particular usage of that function is fine:
In process(), the pointer returned by malloc and stored in arr is suitably aligned for a struct some_struct (and for any other type).
The compiler must choose a size and layout for struct some_struct such that every element and every member of every element of an array of such structures is properly aligned.
Arrays are composed of contiguous objects of the array's element type, without gaps (though the element types themselves may contain padding if they are structures or unions).
Therefore, (char *)arr + n * sizeof(struct some_struct) must be suitably aligned for a struct some_struct, for any integer n such that the result points within or just past the end of the allocated region.  This computation is closely related to the computations involved in accessing an array of struct some_struct via the indexing operator.
struct some_struct has a long as its first member, and that member must appear at offset 0 from the beginning of the struct.  Therefore, every pointer that is suitably aligned for a struct some_struct must also be suitably aligned for a long.Determining whether an operation upholds or violates "type aliasing" constraints requires being able to answer two questions:
For purposes of the aliasing rules, when does a region of storage hold an "object" of a particular type.
For purposes of the aliasing rules, is a particular access performed "by" an lvalue expression of a particular type.
For your question, the second issue above is the most the relevant: if a pointer or lvalue of type T1 is used to derive a value of type T2* which is dereferenced to access storage, the access may sometimes need to be regarded for purposes of aliasing as though performed by an lvalue of type T1, and sometimes as though performed by one of type T2, but the Standard fails to offer any guidance as to which interpretation should apply when.  Constructs like yours would be processed predictably by implementation that didn't abuse the Standard as an excuse to behave nonsensically, but could be processed nonsensically by conforming but obtuse implementations that do abuse the Standard in such fashion.
The authors of C89 didn't expect anyone to care about the precise boundaries between constructs whose behavior was defined by the Standard, versus those which all implementations were expected to process identically but which the Standard didn't actually define, and thus saw no need to define the terms "object" and "by" with sufficient precision to unambiguously answer the above questions in ways that would yield defined program behavior in all sensible cases.