Getting exit status of terminated processI'm trying to get the exit status and of each process whether it returned 1 or 0 and get the sum of each (number of 1s and number of 0s). It appears that the last process to return 1 is the only one being waited on in the while loop.
The program is to take file names as command line arguments and determine if they exist or not. For each file name (exist or not) a new process is forked via a fan relation to the parent and if the file does not exist it returns error status. If it does exist it returns success status. However only the last PID is showing in the while loop.
counting down until all digits in a number are oddI'm writing a c program that reads an entered number and counts down from that number until all the digits in a number are odd. So if 22 is input, the output would be: 22, 21, 20, 19. The program then needs to find the average of those numbers. The issue is I don't know how to break down the entered number into individual digits to identify if they're even or odd. This is what I have started:
After I wrote this I realized it can only tell if the entered number is even or odd, not the individual digits.You should be using %10 and /10 here's an exemple : you analyse 15 your program will 15 % 10 -> 5 is it an odd number yes / no and then 15 / 10 -> 1 is it an odd number yes or no it's all you need !Mallocing nested structsIf if write the following code:
Then in main I call a user defined functions that malloces the _three structure, and returns the pointer to main, is the x variable in the heap?
Because when you access it with the dot operator, that usually means it is static, as opposed to dynamic. The -> operator usually means that it is dynamically allocated. I was wondering if something weird was going on behind the scenes (maybe).“Heap“ is a colloquialism for the memory managed by the memory management routines (malloc, free, and family). At one time, that memory may have been managed with a heap structure, but modern routines are more complicated. A proper term for this memory is “dynamically allocated memory.”
Generally, whether the routines use a heap or other data structure to manage memory, they have a database of memory available to be allocated. For example, they may have a list (whether it is in a heap, tree, hash table, bit map, some other structure, or some combination of structures) of blocks that were once allocated by have since been freed, so they can be given out again. Or the list may include memory that is available because a large amount was obtained from the operating system to satisfy an earlier request, but only part of it was needed for the specific request, so the remainder is available for future requests.
What this means for your question, is the member x (and the structure it is in) in the heap, is that when memory is allocated, it is actually removed from the heap or other database. It is no longer available to give out, so it is not in the database of available memory.
This means memory you have allocated is not in the heap.
At that point, it is your program’s responsibility to keep track of that memory and to release it with free at an appropriate time. That will return it to the database of available memory. (An appropriate time might be never, if your program finishes its job and is exiting. In general-purpose multiuser operating systems, there is no need to free allocated memory when exiting; the operating system will reclaim it.)
However, the memory you have allocated is dynamically allocated memory, and it might be consider “part of” the pool of such memory in some sense. That is, even though it is not currently part of the database of available memory, it is part of all of the memory that is dynamically allocated and freed.
More particularly, your structure struct _three is defined to include a member two of type struct _two, and that includes a member one of type struct _one, and that includes a member x of type int. All of these form one struct _three object. C does not treat them as separate things that can be split apart in memory and managed separately. Only if you have pointers can a structure have a member that connects to a separate thing in memory. In that case, your program will be allocating that memory separately; it will have to use malloc or a related routine to get memory for that separate thing and set the pointer member to point to that other memory.FFTW array order in cI would like to obtain the inverse Fourier transform of an array so that the order of the final array is in correspondence with the position of the incoming array.
For example, I perform the 1D inverse Fourier transform of HT array using:
The problem is that the order, in which the elements of HxTInV are ordered, is not in correspondence with the input array HxT.
In this way, I can obtain that HxTInV = {1,2,3,4}, but the real solution is {1,3,2,4}.
How can I fix that?Is this a disadvantage of using sleep() or a problem with outputting the count every iteration? (Child process doesn't execute as far as expected)Just a real quick question. Could someone either confirm or correct my theory as to why my child process does not execute as far as I would think? Given what I have, I would expect the child to reach 999 as the parent sleeps for 10 seconds so this would result in 1000 total incrementations of iter. However, it only reaches around 860 on output. My assumption is it has to do with the fact it has to output the count in between every 1/100 second sleep, but I am not convinced. I also considered the manual documentation I found on usleep which said that the function guarentees a delay of at least that long. Is it one of those two or a combination of both?
Declaration is incompatible with PieVectTableMy project is running on ccs 10.3.1. At this moment at project>C2000 compiler> Include option ,I am using 2 path(include_path,-l) like
I have been copied F2806x_GlobalVariableDefs.c from C:\ti\c2000\C2000Ware_3_04_00_00\device_support\f2806x\headers\source
This suggests that the DLL is statically loaded into the C# application process - do I understand this correctly?           
It turns out the memory is allocated 10 times in the DLL for the result?
Do I need to use CoTaskMemFree() or not? And if it is needed - how do I call it on the C# side?found the answer in the book Adam Nathan
Another case that requires the use of IntPtr occurs when a function
allocates memory and expects the caller to free the memory. This is fairly rare in Win32 APIs, because most operate on a caller-allocated buffer (as in the examples that use StringBuilder). When a PInvoke
signature returns a string (either via a return type or a by-reference parameter), the Interop Marshaler internally copies the contents of the unmanaged string to a .NET string, then calls CoTaskMemFree (the
unmanaged equivalent of Marshal.FreeCoTaskMem) to free the unmanaged string. This is a problem, however, if the unmanaged string was not
allocated with CoTaskMemAlloc!How to order a list of integers from greatest to least?I have an assignment where I must use a structure to put in student information. I must then order the credit hours from greatest to least. I am focused on the integer ordering loop, I just can't figure out why my program is outputting incorrectly.
For example, if I were to enter 2,6, and 8 when asked for credit hours, the program would output '8,6,8'. I am not unfamiliar with sorting, but for some reason something isn't making sense when I look at this code. Could anyone help me order the integers from greatest to least? Thanks!
NOTE: I am aware there are better ways to do this, but my professor is making us use strictly C, no C++ at all. I just need help ordering the integers.There are various techniques used for sorting. For instance the bubble sort, quick sort, insertion sort, etc. The simplest one is the bubble sort - but it's not the most efficient one.
In your program you have an array of structs. You've done the inserting part of the structs into the array and that's fine. The problem lies in the second part - the sorting. You have a for loop that starts at the very first element (i.e. 0) and goes all the way up to the last element (i.e. students-1). And nested inside this loop is another for loop - that also has the same range???
the outer for loop begins with element 0 and goes up to the element before the last. The inner for loop starts  with the next element to what the outer for loop stores (i.e. j = i + 1). So if i = 0, j = 1. And this loop goes all the way up to the last element of the array of structs.
Now, inside the inner for loop specify the condition. In your case you want them sorted in descending order (highest to lowest) of the credits.
Note that j is one greater that i. So if i = 0, j = 1, then the if statement reads
If the credits held in the struct in element 1 of the array is greater than the credits stored in the struct in element 0 of the array, then...
If the condition is met, the credits in these 2 structs are swapped.
This an implementation of the "bubble sort". See this for more techniques and explanations.
Like a lot of people in the comments have said, use debugger. It'll help you trace the logic of your programs.Like @Barmar said use the qsort() function from glibc.
Not only is easier than writting your own method but it is much faster at O(N log N) on average.Postgres C Function - Aggregate, Variadic, Any number of any type of argumentI would like to write an aggregate function using C.
The aggregate function will be used as:
Essentially, the aggregate is a fold that returns the value of rc associated to
The reason Andy is returned is because it has the highest value in the total ordering imposed by
This function cannot be written in PGSQL (as far as I can tell) since anyelement requires all 
I believe this can be done in C as witnessed by the implementation of json_build_object.
The json_build_object function takes any number of arguments of any type.
For the function, f, that I am proposing, however, there is an additional complication.
The first argument to an sfunc in an aggregate is a type used to maintain the state of the fold (an stype).
The stype will have to be able to hold an arbitrary number of arbitrarily typed values to be compared
Based on json_build_object, I believe this can be done, but I am very unclear about how to handle the priority_type,
and also unclear about how to use PG_RETURN_DATUM to return a value of a type that I don't know until I inspect the rc argument's type.
In other words, in all examples I have seen, the PG_RETURN_* seems to know the type it needs to return. In some cases, there may be
a need to construct a value based on some other type (e.g. the type of rc) and then return that constructed value. Since we don't know
the type we are returning until runtime, I am unclear how to construct and return that type without including a case for every possible type of rc. For the function I am proposing here we
may be able to get around the need to construct a new value since we are either returning rc or _state.rc, but that depends on
how the priority_type is ultimately constructed.
I am new to postgres C functions, having only written them once or twice, and this seems to be a very advanced use case.
If anyone can put together a working implementation that would be amazing.
EDIT (Based on answer by Laurenz Albe): Question Still Open
Laurenz, thank you very much for the answer you provided. I found it very interesting and I took some time to fully understand it and to expand it to see if it could be used in my system. I am including the full code here for other readers that may find it useful. Unfortunately, I am not able to use it for myself. I believe I still need a C function, and I will explain exactly why after the included code. As an aside, I do not think the C function needs the column names passed in as strings. Appealing again to json_build_object, we can see that the variable number of variably typed columns are not passed as strings; and, that is what I believe is required in my case.
While the code above may work for some cases, it has some very specific limitations.
The shape of the stype is forced to be the same shape as the row in the table. If we were folding in such a way that additional state properties were required this would not suffice. For example, if I wanted to pass a constant along (say the id of some prioritization list in a priority table), I would be forced to store this id in the table row to get the required shape, even though I don't want it to be stored in the underlying table.
The first argument to the sfunc, util.max_by_cols(), is the stype, but we are using the table name to populate that argument.  Looking at the third example above where I join test_t x to test_t y, it is clear that I must use the alias of one of the tables (I used x in the example above). However, what I require is to be able to pass columns from both tables, x and y, in my use case.  To be specific, table x is my main table, and table y holds the prioritization order for the attribute I am using to prioritize in table x.  In other words I need:
That is, the shape of my stype is some subset of the columns of all of the tables being joined, plus any arbitrary items required for maintaining state during the fold.
In general, the function should work in the following context:
In summary, the sql solution has two primary problems, it forces the shape of the stype (which limits the flexibility of the fold), and it limits the shape of the stype to columns from only a single table. It is true that the second limitation can be worked around with subqueries, but I am in an environment where the structure of the query is already programmatically generated and I would like to avoid changing that structure for this use case. Regardless, the limitation on the shape of the stype being equal to the shape of the row, is still problematic. I will fiddle more, but I would really love to see the C solution. Ultimately, seeing how this could be done in C would likely open up a world of more interesting possibilities in the future.There is no need for a C function, just create your own aggregate using a custom comparison function:
I expect the callback to be called 100 times with the 100 different arguments I gave it. Instead, the callback is called 100 times with the same argument every time: the argument for the 100th request. I've tried with both SIGEV_THREAD and SIGEV_SIGNAL with the same result both times.
The control block must not be changed while the write operation is in progress.
In your case the variable goes out of scope as soon as each loop iteration ends. So it's Undefined Behaviour both in terms of pure C and in terms of the API being called. One solution is to create a static or dynamic array of aiocb.Hardware module with multiple interrupt flag (C)We are currently using an embedded microcontroller (i.MX 7Dual Processors). With this processor, we use a module called Flextimer (FTM). This module execute two tasks for us :
The pulse detection is detected through an interrupt which is then handle in the ISR. At the same time, the module FTM is increasing the timer. Surely the timer will overflow, so the processor also have an interrupt to notify the overflow. Since it's the same module the same ISR is called... The timer is use to compute the number of pulse detected. Unfortunately, sometime the overflow happen at the same time we are reading the timer value, while we are still computing the pulse detection. The consequence is the reading of a small value of the timer without the possibility to be flagged for the overflow.
The 16-bit timer is limitative since it triggers often, but we don't have any other choice. I tried to find a way to handle the two flags, but can't figured it out. Is there in C anyway to handle two flags?
Also, since this processor doesn't handle interrupt priority, I'm not sure the implementation of an another timer would actually solve the problem. Is the only solution is a longer timer to prevent frequent overflow?Rand() still generate 0 even I set the minimun as 1 in C programming [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.I've set the minimum value of rand() as 1 but it still generates number 0. Use a sort function to sort the array by size so that it's more clear.Can somebody help me figure it out? 
Inside the loop, sort(destination, passengers); sorts the entire array pointed to by destination even though the array is not entirely filled in.
I am trying to access and manipulate a list of strings from a function in C but for some reason i get a seg fault as soon as the loop in the function does 1 pass.
I was going to write a long, detailed answer, but it got too long considering the amount of problems I can think of about this code. So here is the short version. It looks like what you are trying to do can be done just like this.
I fail to understand the purpose of the rest of the code. It uselessly allocates memory, does not even do that correctly. And it's just wrong. Maybe more context is needed for what you are trying to achieve.How can I get certain things out of a stringI wanted to write an algorithm that takes an input which contains the name of a certain item and its price, and a dash between them. The output is supposed to state the name of the item and its price.
I would also like to know how can I separate the input into two strings, one being the name, and the other being the price, since I can't really come up with anything.
Why is the output price wrong, and is there a better way of doing it?Well, right away, I see that you're incrementing i twice each time through this loop, probably not what you want:
You can print some values in your price-calculation loop to see what's going on:
The issue is that fgets is adding the \n (the return you press after the input) to the string and you're interpreting it as part of the price.Seems to me that this can be simplified somewhat. Omitting error checking for clarity, you could do something like this:
Another way (that you can use to parse anything from any string), is to use a pair of pointers to walk-the-string setting a begin and end pointer at the start and end of each segment of the string you want and then copy those portions of the string to separate storage.
Now, your delimiter must remain " - ", but you can easily pass that as a parameter instead of using a constant (up to you). Let me know if you have any questions.Remove elements from a binary search tree based on a conditionI have a Struct that stores the name of a file and the day it was last accessed.
I coded a function that recursively removes files that have their access day less than a certain number. For example, when you call this function and pass 10 as a parameter, all files that have access day less than 10 will be deleted.
However, I'm having problems with the execution of the same and ends up generating a memory access error.
I believe my insertion and removal functions are correct but just in case I'm leaving them below.
Does anyone have any idea what might be causing this error and how I can fix it?I'd recommend running valgrind, gdb, etc, to try and figure out where exactly the error is, but without that info here is where I can see a possible NULL dereference.
If root->left and root->right are both NULL, then deleteNode will return NULL, which is then dereferenced by the calls to clear(root->left, date).
See if inserting a check for NULL there would make it no longer segfault.
Again, impossible to tell here if that is what's causing it, please also provide the rest of the code to make it runnable, or debug it to find out what line is causing the segfault.I was able to find the error. Thanks to everyone who helped.
I was returning NULL to the root of the tree, so I lost all tree reference and consequently performed an improper memory access. I updated the clear function to the following:
Changing value of array elementsThe function below searches for the elements in the array h that match the input value. It then shows the index and the value of the matching elements.
How can I make it change the value of the matching elements in the array?Use break; to exit a loop. Do not do it by arbitrarily changing a variable to make the loop test condition false. (There are situations where changing a variable naturally results in terminating the loop, but doing so by setting the key to 99999999 is an ugly kludge, is unnecessary because that is what break is for, and makes the code more of a nuisance to read.)
key==99999999; compares key to 99999999 and then does nothing with the result. To assign a value, use =, not ==.
To assign a value to an array element, use h[index] = value;.OSError when trying to use a C-based library in Python with ctypes (Windows)I'm currently trying to use a library written in C with my Python code but I didn't have much success at all. I'm currently using Windows and have downloaded, saved and installed the library (linked below) to a directory near my project using Cygwin.
As of now, I'm not sure how you load it within your Python code. I followed the instruction in this link: https://github.com/xiph/rnnoise/issues/69 but replaced the library path with a relative path and saved the library inside my project directory. Here's my code and here's the return error
My impression of the instruction version was that they are trying to locate the library in Linux, so I just copied the library to the project folder and didn't know what they are trying to load once the library is located. Also, I think that some environment pathway problems may be at play here since I downloaded and installed this library in Windows.
This could be an file access permission error. You might be able to get around it by making a new virtual environment or by uninstalling and reinstalling Python; see this post.strcpy through array of strings passed to a function?Long story short, I'm making this 3D OpenGL builder game. The details don't matter much, but here is my problem. I have this array of strings:
And I'm trying to pass them to a function that accepts a "list" in the form of an array of strings and creates buttons via the Create_Button method for each item in that list.
But even though VS doesn't give me any errors when building, I still get an access violation error when it reachs the strcpy(name, list[i]); part.
What is the problem here? Is this not how I'm supposed to pass the two dimensional char array? Or is the problem with how I'm passing it to strcpy? Just to be clear, list_size is 5 in this case, so that's correct, the problem shouldn't be with the for cycle going out of bounds.
used in expressions like for example a function argument is implicitly converted to pointer to its first element.
The element type of the array is char[30]. So the function that accepts this array as an argument needs to declare the corresponding parameter as
There is no implicit conversion between the pointer types char ( * )[30] and char **.
So change the type of the first function parameter.
Another approach is just to change the declaration of the array like
In this case the function parameter may indeed have the type char **.gcc error message includes unnecessary characterI have just written very simple c file.
And tried to compile using the command "gcc packet_receive.c"
I understand why I see this error.
But I'm wondering why I see 'e' in front of main, close, pclose from the error message.
Is there anyone seeing the same kind of error message? Thanks for the comments.
I was using teraterm and accidently set locale to Japanese.
annexe.c is a file where I'm pretty sure there is no problem because it works with another files.
I checked all the "}" and "{", all the ";" and no one is missing.
Thank you for your help.Almost certain it's in your Tri_Insertion() function - you have the following unterminated line which is probably throwing a compiler error (it seems to be about line 8 of your tri.c file:
Your second file is called tri.c , but in main you include it as a header file #include "tri.h" . Is that correct?Using strcat() on two string allocated with malloc() and then assigned using = causes segfault in C programTrying to concat two strings that have been allocated using malloc doesn't seem to work, but if the variables are changed to John[4] and Carter[6] then it works?
Are there any alternatives besides changing the variables to "arrays"?
JohnCarterWhat does a string literal mean?
“John” tells the compiler the store the for letters and a zero byte somewhere, preferably in read-only memory, and give you a pointer to that memory. So what have you done:
You allocated a pointer to 4 bytes. Not enough for the string “John”, it needs five bytes. You stored the pointer in the variable John.
You stored five bytes “John” in read-only memory, took a pointer to that memory, and stored that pointer in the variable John, overwriting the previous pointer.
You called strcat, which tries to copy “Carter” to the end of “John” in read-only memory. Since it’s read-only memory, it crashes. If it didn’t crash, it would write 7 bytes somewhere into memory that is used for something different. That would be worse.For starters the program produces memory leaks because at first a memory was dynamically allocated
So the addresses of the allocated memory are lost.
Moreover the pointer John shall point to a memory large enough to store the concatenated result string.
The program can look the following way
This is a basic program to input a name and output that itself.
But the output is only showing one character.
To get cleanup functions to execute during stack unwinding, you need to build with -fexceptions.
(For glibc before 2.34, you may have to link with -lpthread to get the stack-unwinding variant of pthread_exit.)Printing addition of char and integer value as floatI'm just wondering why am I getting a 0 value when I try to print the addition of a char and an integer value. My code is as follows:
invokes undefined behavior because you are using the incorrect conversion specifier %f with an object of the type int.
though in the last case the argument will be promoted to the type double due to the default argument promotions.Most of the time, when you call a function, and you pass the wrong type of argument, C automatically converts it for you.  For example, if I write
this works, and prints 12.  It works even though the sqrt function actually wants an argument of type double — because the compiler knows that, and automatically converts my int argument 144 to double before passing it to sqrt.  (There's also a conversion on the way back, because sqrt returns a double, which has to be converted back to int before assigning to i.)
But the printf function itself is a big, giant exception to this rule.  In your code, you had
Now, although as I've just explained, the compiler didn't traditionally have any license to try to convert printf arguments to the proper type, modern compilers typically do take a peek at the format string, if they can, and check that things are going to work properly at run time.  For example, when I run your code through one of my compilers, I get warning: format specifies type 'double' but the argument has type 'int'.  If your compiler is not giving you warnings like this, you might want to find out if there's a way to enable them, because they're obviously super handy.As already pointed out in the comments section, it is your responsibility to ensure that the format string and the function arguments match. In your case, they do not match. The result of the expression z + y is of type int, but you are using the %f conversion specifier in the format string, which is only valid for the data types float and double (float gets promoted to double).
As pointed out in the comments section, you have two options to fix this:
change the format string to expect an argument of type int, or cast the argument to double or float
The solution using option #1 would look like this:
As a final note, extern int yylineno; can't work, since extern means "this variable is defined in a different translation unit", and there is no other translation unit in your code. I presume that you found that in the discussion of a different file intended to be linked together with the scanner. (If the place you found that suggests putting the extern declaration in a .l file, you need to discard it as a source of information.)
If this is the first time you've attempted to write a C application with more than one source file, you should probably take a few minutes to review how linking multiple files works in C. That will save you a lot of frustration later.Leaking to userspace via padding in a Kernel ModuleLooked at this code
Get a warning that it could be potentially leaking memory on kernel stack, through padded fields, into user space.
However tee_ioctl_param fields, all are defined as u64
There is no padding happening, right? Serial communication in C using Loopback on cable I'm trying to create a simple Serial communication in C. I'm having some problems when receiving the data. I appears that the buffer size is not correct, or the data is not being retrieved from the Serial.
it is a code to slice a string can anyone pls tell what is wrong with this code
i am trying to find the error but i am not sure whats wrong with this i want the original string to sliced in a such a way that it is now string from m and till n i think there is some issue in while loop pls check that
Would you like them here or there? I would not like them here or there. I would not like them anywhere.
As the title says, I'm searching for a way to ask the user for input again if they dont provide an expected answer. I've searched around for some time, but all I've found was stuff for python and age stuff... I compare strings, couldn't tailor it to what I wanted.
I could maybe use goto in C as well, but upon reading more, I see that many are against using goto, so I decided not to, as it was really getting hard to keep up with it as well. How can I loop this? I'm a beginner in C, been thinking about this for a week now. Decided to ask here at last, sorry if this is a duplicate, any help appreciated!You can use a do-while loop & set a flag/boolean variable to & run the loop prompting the user to re-enter the option till he selects a valid option.
Here I have set a int variable - "isInvalidSelection" & set it to true, then have set up a do-while loop & ran the user input code inside the do-while loop, finally the test condition for the do-while loop is the predicate/boolean which was initially set to true & as long as it is true the loop will continue.
You could use strcmpi() function to compare the strings ignoring  case-sensitive inputs (Make sure that this method is available for your compiler first, or otherwise if you compiler doesn't support the method another way to implement strcmpi() like functionality would be to convert the userSelection to lowercase or uppercase & then use strcmp() with the respective comparison)How to output number in the range 64 bits to 128 bits ( like 2^64, 3^64, 4^64 etc)?When i was coding i got a problem like: i need to output number which is 2^64 (also 3^64 and others). I have tried unsigned long long int, but it's still not enough (it contains 2^64-1). If anyone know how i can output numbers from 64bits to 128bits, just let me know (btw this task i'm trying to do on C).First, compile this program:
If the compiler prints an error message about the identifier int128_t, then your compiler probably does not support integers wider than 64 bits, regardless of what the type name is.
You can write your own code to implement 128-bit arithmetic from smaller types. For short, simple programs, you can use the same techniques taught in elementary school for multiplying and adding numbers digit by digit, just using a type like uint32_t as a “digit” instead of a single decimal digit. Or you can implement them using single decimal digits, if you prefer. (For example, two uint32_t numbers can be converted to uint64_t and multiplied to make a 64-bit product which you then split into one uint32_t digit to be kept in the current position and one uint32_t digit to be carried to the next position.)
Use an arbitrary-precision library, such as the GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic Library. This will require downloading and configuring additional software.Mongo C Driver, filtering documents by element with unknown placementI am using the MongoDB C Driver. I would like to filter for a document in my db that somewhere contains an element with a certain key and a certain value. I do not know where exactly the element is nested inside the document.
For example I would like to search for the document containing the element "DocumentId" with the value 1001. But I would like to keep it dynamic for changes in the future, where "DocumentId" might be placed outside of "Header" or even further nested inside.
Here is my simple test code that finds the document by id and prints it for verification, but only if I have the exact position of "DocumentId".
When I "download" lets say the first document in my db as a bson, I can manually iterate through the document with the bson_iter and find the element I am searching for. But that would imply to "download" every single document and try each until I find what I am seaching for.
I was just wondering if there is a possibility to do it "directly" with the queries. Is it possible to get the Names of the elements "Header" and "Jobs" and there respective nested elements and just dynamically pass them to a query-loop?How to handle xcb client messages properlyThe following code creates a window with a opengl rendering context.
You are saving the event in _event->xcb_event. But you are casting _event to xcb_client_message_event_t*. You should be casting _event->xcb_event.
So, that last line should be:
Now I want to use my static library in another project to create an .exe. Lets call it B. I copied the header A.h and the A.lib into the B project and adapt the project properties so that my library can be found.
The problem is that I get LNK2001 errors, because the linker can not find the definitions of the tensorflow functions which I call in my A.lib.
I tried to copy the tensorflow lib into my project B as well. But that did not help.
What do I have to do to include the libraries correctly? Or is there a simpler alternative to deploy a convolutional neural network in C? How to create a Minimal, Reproducible Example (reprex (mcve)).
it works (at least this trivial example). As seen, when building the .exe I also passed the .dll's .lib to the linker (meaning that the .dll (together with all its (recurring) dependents) is required at runtime). For info on how to do it on the VStudio project, check [SO]: How to include OpenSSL in Visual Studio (@CristiFati's answer).Is there a way to tell C compiler to inline a variable?I am a relatively new C programmer and I am writing a chess program that I want to make sure it runs as fast as possible. Here is a snippet of code from my program inside a loop in which I am encoding moves into a 16-bit variable. Each square takes up 6 bits.
So the first 6 bits represent the origin square of the move and the next 6 represent the target square. In this particular loop, all the moves will be of the same type: the origin square will always be -7 from the target.
I don't want to waste instructions declaring Square originSquare and then looking up its value 1 line later, since this section of a loop is running thousands of times per second.
My question is: is there a way to tell the C compiler or preprocessor to just shove targetSquare - 7 where it sees originSquare within the scope of this loop, i.e. inline the variable, or will it do this already?
My best guess is that if I declare the variable const the compiler will likely do this on its own, but I'd like to be sure and learn more about C and compilation.which type files can be written/read or created in C? [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.I have just learned about the method fopen(),fgets() and fclose() but Im still a bit confused about which types of files can be written or read from with these commands.
At first, I though it was only for text files, but then I saw somebody using .bin file, so Im not sure now.
Any help greatly appreciated.Semaphore isn't working for shared memoryI'm trying use shared memory using semaphore. But it didn't work at all.
This question is for academic learning purpose so please don't suggest semaphore alternatives. Thanks in Advance.C Reading records from text file in C using structureI am trying to extract records from a text file named lib.txt. My program is a very simple library based management program where I will have to print all books by a given publisher or department.
Oh and they are seperated by tabs. Even tried with spaces but no change. The program is compiling fine but not generating desired output. Can anyone please please help?
Edit: Even tried individual character extraction and then splitting into substrings but failed. Please helpHere is how I would do it:
Make sure lib.txt contains tabs, not spaces. You should verify is your editor is replacing tabs with spaces.
Why does declaring variables on a single line give an unexpected result? I programmed a simple clock and found that while hours and seconds are okay, minutes are not if I declare the variables on a single line (minutes starts at 16 and not at 0 as expected).
The problem is solved if I declare the variables on separated lines. I'm still curious though, anybody knows why?
Your variables are uninitialized - they can take any value, and using them before initialization is (usually) indeterminate behavior.
You haven’t initialized h or m, so their initial values might whatever was in that memory already, or something else entirely. C does not automatically initialize variables to 0.
When you declare multiple variables on one line, the value only applies to the variable it comes after. So
Well, I guess, because C is not English.  The "= 0" part applies just to that one variable name s, not to the whole line.
Although, you know, English doesn't necessarily apply modifiers to the whole line, either.  If I say "There were three people standing on the streetcorner: A man, a woman, and a boy named Brad", you would not infer that the man and the woman were named Brad, too, would you?
I am trying to move my char pointer along my char array (a string), it doesn't work and I don't understand why.
You want help parsing individual items out of a comma-delimited list.  If you don't have to worry about quote-surrounded strings containing commas, you can just use strchr for that:
I am writing a feature to upgrade the embedded code in field (a.k.a IAP). To allow the code to upgrade the flash, I need to make sure the code executing the upgrade should be copied to RAM for execution. The problem is how could I list all the function involved in the flash upgrade, so that I could mark them all as __ramfunc.
If the callback function modifies the contents of the array before it prints them, then the results printed will be correct:
I'm not sure why array[x] are different in both cases. Is this the recommended way for passing arrays into a callback function, and why doesarray[x] return different values in both cases?The array whose address you are passing to the callback function is local to the activate function. So, when that callback is (later) actually made, the activate function has finished and the data buffer pointed to (numbers) has gone out of scope. Thus, you have undefined behaviour.
In your case, that memory is still accessible to the callback routine (but don't rely on this) but the data you placed there in the initialization have been overwritten (by what code sector and how many times, is almost impossible to tell, as the memory will likely be somewhere on the stack) – hence the garbage values you're seeing. However, when you give new values in the callback function (printer), those values are displayed correctly (but you still, technically, have undefined behaviour, because the memory pointed to by user_data may no longer be available).
One way to fix this would be to make the numbers array static, so that the memory is preserved when the activate function finishes:
Other options would be: (a) make the numbers array a global variable (not so good and often much frowned-upon); (b) allocate the memory for the array dynamically (on the heap), using malloc (but you would then need to free that memory when you're done with it).Write a program in C that reads up to 100 integers from a file, where the first value from the file is the number of subsequent values in the fileWrite code that reads a number of values, interpreted as integers, from a file named “mtData.txt”, where the first number tells how many subsequent numbers there are, and there will never be more than 100 integers.
I'm new to C, coming from a background in Java. I wrote the following, producing an infinite loop that prints the obvious statements and an address not the values from the file.
The previous code does not check if the file contains more data than necessary (that would also mean that the file is not valid), so it just ignores that extra data (thanks @chux for pointing it out).
Also note that fscanf() will not detect integer overflows, so in the future you may want to look at alternative approaches for integer parsing (e.g.: strtol()).C Program just freeze when I use scanf in a loopI am writing a simple algorithm for a question on coursera and while I start entering values through scanf(), my program is just freezing. It's not executing and even existing the loop. When it didn't work in my laptop, I tried it in an online compiler and it didn't work there also. I was facing the same problem with a similar algorithm question of Coursera.
It worked for me in the online compiler https://www.onlinegdb.com/online_c_compiler.
I want to make this to recursive function, to make it work on variable 'r' value, because I don't want  fixed number of for loops.
I tried but couldn't make recursive function.Indeed we can use recursion to build the n-levels deep structure of the nested for loops, performing the action at the deepest level of recursion.
Or, equivalently, we can build n-1 levels and perform the last for loop explicitly, like this:
Added my thought process to write the recursive function
For each available number, save the number and recurse with 1 less loop and adjusted limits.
It was this that generated that code. After writing the code I could have studied it attentively and stream line some aspects, but decided to post as it was.How to send two values with MPI broadcast without an error 11?I'm trying to send the widht and height of a pic that is read by the process 0 and send it to all the processes, but a runtime error 11 appears. (The func stbi_load gets the widht and height)
This typically indicates that the process finished in error.                                                   
If your process did not finish in error, be sure to include a "return 0" or "exit(0)" in your C code before exiting the application.                                                                                                                                                                                PID 4256 failed on node n0 (127.0.0.1) with exit status 11.                                                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------