determine pointer length in a typedef struct [duplicate]How to determine pointer length in a typedef struct? I have tried the following but sizeof returns 1 of 4. See function read_typedef were the size calculation is done. Az @Bodo have suggested I have used strlen instead which returns 21
Conversions implied by assignment expressionsThere are 2 paragraphs in the 6.5.16 chapter of the Standard:
In simple assignment ( = ), the value of the right operand is
converted to the type of the assignment expression and replaces the
value stored in the object designated by the left operand.
the left operand has atomic, qualified, or unqualified arithmetic
type, and the right has arithmetic type;
So consider the following code:
Both i and f have arithmetic types so f should be converted to i. The compilation of the code produces an error though:
error: conversion from ‘float’ to ‘int’ may change value [-Werror=float-conversion]
So what kind of conversions are permitted in assignment expressions? I though the conversion in the Standard is equivalent to cast (type).
I'm also storing the output like this:
Now the question is how can I catch, CTRL+D, after some input? Like I've types asdasdas and then CTRL+D. Then I want to sound some alarm, or print a new line. How can I do so?
In my case, it just goes on executing the rest of the block as usual (size is not 0).
I am using GCC, and SDL 2.0.16 that I compiled and installed myself with the default configuration, which includes static libraries. I already had SDL2 installed through my package manager, so my installation went to /usr/local/include/SDL2 and /usr/local/lib.
No amount of messing around with these flags and -static have been able to produce a binary that doesn't dynamically link to SDL2. How can I do it?
Other flags I am using for other reasons are -std=c89 -Wall -Wno-unknown-pragmas -DNDEBUG -Os -g0 -s
Being able to cross compile and do this would be great, but I understand that's a lot more complex. I've been trying to compile with zig cc as that would allow cross-compilation later, but couldn't get it to work. I was able to get a build that didn't dynamically link to SDL2, but it would segfault.
If your build of SDL2 is installed elsewhere, just change the /usr/local/include/SDL2 and /usr/local/lib part of the command to point to where the header files and .a files are respectively.
If I figure out how to cross-compile this setup, I will update this answer.Pthread doesn't work properly. c programmingI'm trying to implement a mutex lock example code, but it doesn't work as well as the theory of mutex lock.
I create 10 threads for my program, 9 threads are reading an array and one thread change the array. In the theory of lock, if I lock the array before changing it then other threads can not read it.
but my program runs differently. please check the code below and help me to understand where to call pthread mutex lock functions:
Theoretically, when you run this code, the read_array function should not print anything but in a moment array elements will be 0 and other threads achieve that.Alternatives to IMalloc_Free and IMalloc_releaseFor freeing memory used by the SHGetFolderLocation() API, I use IMallloc_Free() and IMalloc_Release().
This compiles fine when including
However, in some files, specifically ATL header included files, this results in compiler issues. However, there pMalloc->Free() and pMalloc-Release() work.
Is there any free and release method which works for both of these files?Generally no, you either use C way to work with COM, or C++ way.
Specifically for IMalloc here, however, just use CoTaskMemFree instead. Default IMalloc and CoTaskMemFree are compatible, and COM does its allocations compatible with them.
SHGetFolderLocation is documented to be deallocated with ILFree, but see remark in ILFree documentation.
See also How to use IMalloc::Free?. The linked post explains that in older systems shell allocation could be incompatible with COM allocation, so you could not use IMalloc::Free or CoTaskMemFree for ILFree, but now you can (assuming you don't support historic OSes).garbage value in byte array in JNA [duplicate]This question already has an answer here:I am writing a sample C program just to print the input parameters passed to the program from Java using JNA. The C prog has to take unsigned char * as input.
I am not getting why this is happening.
Why I am seeing the garbage value and why the length has increased??
If I pass a string instead of byte array it is working fine, but in the original C prog, the string needs to overwritten and thus I can't pass the String parameter as input.
Any help is appreciated. Your native code is assuming the array is a null terminated string. But Java does not null terminate strings. And byte arrays can't be null terminated because a 0 byte is a valid value.Segmentation fault when assigning to structshm_ipc.c
The segfault is thrown when assigning the value of the shm_open to shm->fd.
It is returning 3 so I know I'm not attempting to input a negative value into the field. I've been banging my head against a wall trying to figure this out.
This error is easy to miss - if shm_open succeeds, not the file descriptor is assigned to shm->fd, but the result 0 of the <0 comparison. I suggest to write this more clearly without risking such an error:
How to print character d insead of 0x564d8b7c46e1 in last line of the above wanted outputAll I needed was this
What is the concept of dynamical array of nodes in CI'm dealing with linked list since many days everytime it encounters so many questions to me.
I posted my last question about dynamical allocation of nodes. One of my comments was " Array of nodes ". I have little bit code on it
But I'm confused how it internally working.
What does above code means?
How the memory is allocated and accessed from the list?
Is that similar to below
I'm not able to understand the difference between Dynamic array of nodes and normal nodes
So, first I declare a pointer to a function. I set the pointer to the start function. And the start function takes a pointer to a function also. I call the function using the state pointer, and pass the state pointer along for modification in start.
How do I properly declare the function pointer created in main, and how do I declare the prototypes?Your intention isn't very clear but you can pass function pointers like this:
Couldn't print a double long variable in C [closed]Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.I am a beginner, just learning C; I am trying to print a 'double long' variable. When I try to run the program, It produces incorrect output! Here is the code:
I use vs code with gcc. When I try to run the program, it displays wrong value. I tried using an online compiler, It works fine. Here is the online compiler I used:
I tried using %Lf instead of %.Lf, but still the output is -0.000000 There's a similar problem with MinGW under Windows.
If you run the code with the extension .cpp, it'll show you the correct output.
However, to get the correct output in c , you can use __mingw_printf instead of printf while printing long double values.
Printing "long double" type via printf() on MinGW g++ 3.2.3
can't print correctly a long double in CCode Composer Studio: unresolved symbols remainYou may encounter a build error: 'unresolved symbols remain'. This may be because you have not installed CCS along with SimpleLink SDK properly for the MSP432. To fix this, here a solution that you can try, courtesy of my Professors:Credits: Prof Ian Vince McLoughlin, Prof Muhamed Fauzi bin Abbas
Install CCS (I used the latest, CCS10.4.0.00006_win64.zip [1.15Gbytes]).
Unzip, then do a custom install, and select the MSP432 tools. Default location. You can get it from: https://www.ti.com/tool/CCSTUDIO
Meanwhile, download the installer named; simplelink_msp432p4_sdk_3_40_01_02.exe [232 MBytes] from: https://www.ti.com/tool/download/SIMPLELINK-MSP432-SDK
Once CCS has been installed, launch it and make sure it is running fine. You might need to reboot your computer.  Once this works OK, continue.
Now tun the simplelink installer .exe from step 2. Just accept all of the default options.
Once it has finished, run CCS (or restart CCS if it is already running using File -> Restart).
Once CCS is running, after some time, it will pop up a window near the bottom of the screen saying "Updates Available". Click on that window and allow it to do the default updates (this will auto-update three components).
Click the red crossed-out CLOUD icon (there are 3 icons, the cloud, a home icon and an eye icon). Wait for it to sync to the cloud. It can be slow.
Once the page reloads, scroll down and install the offline package (in one of the rectangular boxes) called Arm code generation tools - compiler. Use the pull-down option to choose version 20.2.4 and click the install icon next to that box.
Wait for this to install. It shouldn't take long.
Once that has been installed, restart CCS.
It will show you a Discovered Project. Tick the box next to that to select that project and then press "Finish". This will import an empty DriverLib project into your workspace.
If there is any problem at this stage, restart CCS and go back to clicking on the red crossed-out cloud (one time it failed for me and I needed to repeat that step).
Alternatively you can also even use following code replacing if-else statement(not right or wrong, just looks fun)
Project Euler problem 11 in C isnt providing any outputI have been trying to solve Project Euler problem 11. I have rechecked my code multiple times but still, after debugging, my program is not providing any answers
The question states that we need to find the greatest product possible of 4 consecutive numbers: either vertically, horizontally or diagonally of the matrix given in the code below:
kindly let me know what is going wrong here. Why isn't my program able to print any output?I did a rookie mistake.
The comparison with maxProduct should be inside the second loop.
Issues with nested structures and dynamic memory allocation [closed]I'm using nested structures and dynamic memory allocation and I'm having problems.
I'm not able to enter anything else after I enter P1. The program terminates.
The other issue I'm having, is that when I select option 2, which is supposed to print all members, it doesn't display correctly.
Even before entering any member details, if I choose option 2, it displays the following:
I'm wondering if when creating the dynamic array, I've made a mistake, and it's actually printing member[0].
It prints the member details, but when it comes to accessing the policy for that member, those details don't print, and it completely skips over the
You can have n members and each member can have polnum policies, but that's not what this struct says. This struct says each member has one policy that is represented by a nested structure. Your outer realloc keeping members in an array constrains the solution space. We can't actually do that and use a stretchy structure at the same time, so I don't have to get into how. We just do this the way you already know how.
Administrative note: code was removed from question after answer posted. What is the difference between the and operator and or operator in a for loop?This loop is breaking with the (||) 'OR' operator but not with the (&&) 'AND' operator. Why is that? What's the difference between the two?
says "if the character is simultaneously the character y and the character Y, then exit the loop." But that can't happen, since a character can't simultaneously be both y and Y.
says "if the character is either y or Y, then exit the loop." And it is indeed possible for a character to be one of y or Y, even if it can't be both.First you have to know the difference between && and  ||
What is logical AND(&&) ?
When you use logical and i.e && in between statements it will go through all those statements and check every statement in condition.
What is logical OR (||) ?
Logical OR ( || ) is something which try to find one possible condition which is true.
When you put multiple conditions using || then compiler doesn't go through all condition it will stop check the condition when it encounters a valid condition.
As per your assumption you have to give two valid inputs to break the if statement
Problems compiling zephyr shield exampleI have an STM32 lorawan discovery board with an attached x_nucleo_iks02a1 shield. I'm trying to run the microphone sample, and I get an error at line 52
I looked at the zephyr.dts file and noticed that there is no compat listed with the string st_mpxxdtyy so I suppose that is the reason for the failure. The board I am using is not a nucleo but does have the same arduino compatible headers. Do I need to port this shield to this board?Copy the overlay file x_nucleo_iks02a1_mic.overlay from /zephyrproject/zephyr/boards/shields/x_nucleo_iks02a1 to the root of your projectfolder.
How does recvfrom know when to stop reading packets? in C recvfrom can be used to read UDP messages form a socket as such:
max_length only tells the maximum number of bytes the buffer can hold, and not the actual length of course.
Now recvfrom will immediately stop reading after the i character is received. length will be set to 2.
How does it know when to stop?
does sendto append any data to the packet with result of strlen saying what the data length is? or does it look for null terminating char?Unlike a TCP socket which is stream based, UDP sockets are datagram based.
That means that a single call to sendto will send one UDP datagram and a single call to recvfrom will receive a single UDP datagram.  This also means that the buffer supplied to recvfrom should be large enough to hold a single datagram.  If it is not large enough, any bytes from that datagram that don't fit in the buffer will be discarded.terminating array looping using pointer notation in CI’m taking a C class on Udemy.  Unfortunately the instructor isn’t replying to my question so I thought I’d try this site.  My assumption is that it is probably fairly common when developing a program to not know how many elements may be part of an array.  When initializing an array the instructor recommends not specifying a size but to let the compiler do it.
Obviously, using this method there is no index to use to terminate looping.  According to “C Primer Plus” by Stephen Prata the element after the last element in the array is a valid pointer location:
If I’m using pointer notation (array++) to loop through the array, what condition can I use to terminate the looping? Is there a value in that location after the final element that I can use? Is that value always the same or does it change depending on the type of array?In C pointers are signed.  That has consequences dealing with array-like data structures where you might:
if the index one beyond the end of a could have a change of sign, then that code could fail.   Idiomatic C does not suggest the above; but it needs to be preserved, thus this limitation.
In system code, it is possible that you deal with allocations that do not conform to this, thus you should try to work with the idiomatic:
Your basic idea (looping through an array using pointers) is sound; however, there are a number of points in your question that need some attention.
Is there a value in that location after the final element that I can use? Is that value always the same or does it change depending on the type of array?
Yes, there is a (almost certainly) some value in that location, but it's not something you can ever use! The pointer to the 'one-past-the-end' element is valid only for use in pointer arithmetic or comparison operations; attempting to dereference it (to read the value at that address) is undefined behaviour.
You can get that 'one-past-the-end' pointer by adding the number of elements in the array to the address of the array's first element (or the array 'name' itself). The idiomatic way to get the number of elements in an array is to divide the size of the entire array by the size of its first element. So, for your array, we can declare and initialize our "end pointer" like this, using the sizeof operator:
Another important point: In your question you mention using array++ to loop through your array variable. You cannot do this, because array isn't actually a (modifiable) pointer variable – it's the name of a variable (an array) whose location is fixed at the point when main (or whatever function it is declared inside) is entered. Instead, you will need to copy the address of the array into another int* pointer, and increment that in the loop.
With those points in mind, here's an illustrative example of how you can loop through your array using a pointer:
The int* p = array assignment works (and is perfectly valid C) because an array variable name can readily decay into a pointer to its first element (as it will if you pass that array as an argument to a function, for example). See: What is array to pointer decay?
Because of that last point above, you cannot use the sizeof(a)/sizeof(*a) paradigm to determine the size of an array in a function it is passed to as an argument; in such cases, you need to pass the array's size as an additional argument. See: How do I determine the size of my array in C?Trying to perform bitwise operation on a negative number to make 0s in bits 31-16 (32 bit number) in CI have a number, -3, that I would like to use as a 16 bit integer and use an | (or) operator with a 32 bit integer.
So ideally, I need it so that -3, in binary two's complement, will be 0000 0000 0000 0000 1111 1111 1111 1101
I thought this would ideally put 0's in the bits 31-16 (0 indexed), but it doesn't seem to work. Any help to achieve this would be appreciated.Two ways to get the two’s complement of 3 in 16 bits, with higher bits clear, are:
Shifting a negative value to the right is implementation-defined behavior.
Best to use unsigned type (or small postive values) when shifting.
to perform bitwise operation on a negative number to make 0s in bits 31-16 (32 bit number) i
Use & to mask and retain only the least significant 16 bits.
Let's say I am creating a program and a makefile, and I want to be able to create three different executables with different names that all do different things, all with the same source file. Is this at all possible?Option 1
Write a program that examines argv[0] to see what name it has been executed with and branches based on that:
Compile the program and call the executable x or some other name.
The source code does not have to be in separate files. The above is only an example, and all of the source code could be in the file directly instead of included with #include.
With GCC and Clang, you can define a preprocessor symbol with -DOption=value on the command line to compile the program. The rules in a makefile can build the different programs by using different values in the compile command.How to read file line by line using file descriptorI would like to read a PNM file using the ::read interface, on file descriptors.
The image header has to be read line by line, which I currently perform with fgets,
but this won't work of course for file descriptors.
One idea I have is to open file stream, read header, close file, then re-open with ::open and read pixel data with ::read interface. But this seems a tad inefficient. Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.GPU crashes when binding something not valid in directx 11I'm a beginner with DirectX11 and i got a small GPU error,it is when i try to bind VertexShader or PixelShader or anything else to the pipline, suddenly the GPU crashes and weird somethinges appear on my display screen,
Is there any way to reload the Graphics card instead of restarting the machine :) ?How to make the output `1` when the input is "1200" and "1300"?When running this code and putting 1200 for startn and 1300 for endn, the output is Years:0. Where to pass the given test it should be Years:1. Note that the code runs without errors and works with other numbers.
The purpose of the code is to calculate the number of years needed to reach the given end population of llamas endn and starting from the given population of llamas. While doing that, we add born llamas + finalTotal/3 and remove died llamas - finalTotal/4. And then saving the total number in finalTotalIf you initialize finalTotal with startn, then it will work. Your code look like the following:
You computed the first year manually, so it never stepped in the last while .
Also you should count the llamas as integers too, instead of float.
After a bit refactor, and more appropriate variable names the code looks like the following:
How would I fix the alignment on this Table? I have coded this program in C that reads in a file and prints it out to a table that is aligned with vertical bars including a header and footprint. The file always has 3 columns but different amounts of rows. The columns will differ in the amount of characters in each. The problem that I am having is that the first file I read in aligns perfectly but when I read in others that are increased sizes in all of the columns it does not align. Is there a way to make it automatically align or do I have to do this manually every time?
Before printing the data I iterate over the array and calculate the maximum width of each field. Depending on the type of data, you may need to use some function other than strlen.
total and endn are part of the total code but not necessary for the question.You can simply move the declaration of finalTotal as an int to before the loop.
declare and initialize to 0 in case while loop does not run
This does look like an infinite loop though, as neither total nor endn seems to change.You need to read up on scope. Variables can only be accessed within their scope. Since you declare int finalTotal inside of the while loop, only other statements inside of the while loop can access it.
Instead you need to declare your variable in the outer scope, so that the following printf can access it.
As mentioned by others, another problem is that the while loop may never terminate since total and endn are not changing inside of the while loop. So it will potentially iterate forever.
Perhaps this was intended to be while (final Total < endn).why pthread is behaving like this in cmy code should be printing 0 1 2 3 4 but why output is from 1 to 5. every time is re-run code it change output but range remains same 1-5 output i am getting: 1 2 3 5 5, 1 2 2 5 5, 5 5 5 5 5 expected output is : 0 1 2 3 4 can anyone tell why i am not getting expected output
you are passing a pointer to the same local variable i that can be changed in the loop before a thread starts and moreover the program can have undefined behavior because the pointed variable can be unalive when a thread will try to access it.Unfortunately, your code has two race conditions, only one of which can be fixed [easily].
In main, passing i by pointer allows each thread function to receive [seemingly] random values. That's because the pointer given to each thread points to the same variable (i.e. i). For example, the value passed to thread 0 could be 1 because main executes its loop faster than thread 0 can be started.
Even if we fix the above [see below for a way], just because the threads are created [via pthread_create] in the order: 0,1,2,3,4 there is no guaranteed that they will execute/print in that same order. For example, they could execute in the order: 3,0,2,1,4
However, the second issue can't be fixed without some sort of synchronization between the threads, which defeats the purpose of having separate threads.
There are different [equally messy] ways to do this.
For example, main and the threads could synchronize via one or two global variables that are stored/fetched via (e.g.) stdatomic.h primitives to have main "grant" access to each thread in order. And, the thread would have to acknowledge completion via the other global.
Or, mutexes and semaphores could be used.
Here is a [crude] method of sync, using atomics. We create a per-task struct to hold the data for a given thread:
There are [probably] better ways to sync the threads.
In this method, the main thread grants "access" and waits for the thread to "complete".
An alternate would be that once the main thread grants access to the first thread (e.g. thread 0), then the thread could run and it could grant access to the next thread in the list (e.g. thread 0 grants access to thread 1, etc.):
That way the value doesn't change before the thread starts running.file reading in openglThe triangle i wrote in opengl doesnt work mostly at the stage of reading the file bofore though everything was fine until i added file reading and i got just memory leaks of things i dont/know had to be freed. Please help me they arent any good opengl tutorials for mostly c so please hellp i need help
check comment for segmentation in my code that's where i am getting the segmentation fault.
I was trying to print the data inside struct ai_addr which is a pointer of type sockaddr
Difference between pre-increment and post-increment in a loop?
Increment happens after the Output(i) (equivalent to printf("%d ", i);), Then how i's value comes as 1 but not 0?It's because of ; after for loop
It's because the semicolon will be considered as an end of the statement and your printf is not part of the loop and will be executed once the loop execution gets completed.When you add semicolon at the end of for loop then execution will terminated after checking the condition in for loop.
As you can see, the for loop is empty, and the code block with the printf statements is not part of the for statement (which means that it is not part of the loop). What you want is probably the following:
Note that this code is identical to your code, except that a semicolon was removed.Why is my program printing zeros instead of -1I'm supposed to make a searching program where I have to input data of n customers where each data contains ID, name, age, and balance of each customer.
Then the user is asked to input m queries. For each query, given a variable x to search in the first array whether customer whose ID is x exists. If it exists, the program outputs the customer's data, if it doesn't, the program outputs "-1".
Here for each query in which the ID exists, I've successfully printed the customer's data by first storing them to new arrays, but for query of x that doesn't exist my code is printing zeros instead of -1.
I suppose the problem is somewhere around the last and second last for loops of my code or maybe I'm initializing the count variable wrong but I still can't figure out what I'm supposed to fix.
You declare count, however you do not initialize its values. Most likely it grabs a memory block filled with zeros, which means your comparison count[i] == 0 will always be true, thus not print -1. To fix this I would recommend initializing the array count with the value 1. By doing this, the equality above will only be true if count[j] is explicitly set to 0. To initialize the array, do the following immediately after declaring the array:
Personally, I would initialize the count array with zero and attribute 1 to count[j] when necessary, as I think it makes more sense when having a variable called count. Either way, but solutions work, if you decide do change it, please consider you'll also have to change the equality in the if clause.How to dereference a double pointer for inet_ntopI am trying to print out the address using inet_ntop. I have a struct within a struct
What should the correct syntax be? I would like to keep passing in the double pointer into void do_some_stuffEncrypy file from one location & Decrypt file on another location using c without user input [closed]Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.I don't want to decrypt it in the same location.
Without any input from user.
Also, I don't want a c++ code.How to store the data dynamically in linked list in C? I'm trying to store the values in the linked list dynamically.
I want the user to input the size of the linked List. Then based on the input I want to allocate the memory (i.e if Input : 3 then three nodes should be created).
If memory is allocated for nodes then I store the head node  in a temp.
After that I want to store the data in list untill list comes to the end
I don't understand why it printing only one value when I'm executing it.
I don't know how wrong I was?
assigns an indeterminate value to the pointer temp and using this pointer further in the loop invokes undefined behavior.
Moreover the condition in the loop
Also you should free all the allocated memory when the list will not be needed any more.
Pay attention to that you allocated an array of nodes. Using your approach the program can look the following way.
If you indeed want to organize data as a list instead of an array then the program can look the following way
The program output might look as shown for the previous demonstrative program. When you create a new node, you should allocate the next node and after that move the current node to the next one. Also, you should pay attention to the initial state (when size is 1). You should modify your code similar to this:
Also, you should free dynamically allocated memory at the end of the program to avoid memory leaks.C Pointer to arrays [duplicate]This question already has an answer here:it compiles in C# but the program crashes.
In this line of code, c1 is declared as a local array of chars - and its contents will be placed on the stack of the function. Function stacks are modifiable and so c1[0] = ... will work.
there's a subtle difference here - c2 is not an array, but a pointer to a string literal. Modifying it is undefined behavior per the standard - in practice, what usually happens is that the "hello" string gets placed in the executable's read-only .data section - and attempting to modify it triggers a page fault that crashes the program.Going from C code to RISC-V assembly codeI have this exercise
Doesn't sd x31, 0(x30) mean that I store the value of x31 in the 0'th bit of array 30? Where does the 4*j all of a sudden come from?
And doesn't addi x30, x30, 32  mean that x30 = x30+32? And wasn't x30 = &D[0] defined in the first loop? How does j all of a sudden come into contact with x30?This is equivalent to the following:
It is often more efficient to maintain a current pointer than recompute it everytime, especially in RISC-V, because you cannot have a register offset (there is no str x31, [x30, x29]).Using strcat results in an empty stringI'm learning C and tried to make a little program to know how strings work. Using the strcat function with pointers to a char produces an empty string, even thought I initialize the first pointer dynamically with malloc. Why is this happening if both strings have been initialized?
You have changed what area of memory dest points to. (Remember, dest is a pointer, not an array or the memory itself.)
As a consequence you are now trying to write to read-only memory (where the "Hello" string is located in memory), which is causing failure.
An additional consequence is that the chunk of memory obtained by malloc was lost, as you now have no way to release it back to the memory manager. In software we call this a “leak”, as in it leaks memory.
To fix it, use strcpy to copy the "Hello" string to your allocated memory spot, which is both writable and, as you coded it, large enough to hold a 19-character string.
Always remember to watch the size of your string arrays that they are large enough to accept everything you wish to append (concatenate) to them. In this example it is sufficient, but still very, very small.
You may also consider appending a space to separate your strings, and either printing a newline at the end of your input or flushing the output stream in order to guarantee immediate output.C standard coding style? [closed]Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.I couldn't find anything online, but I was carefully checking the C standard library (without POSIX), and noticed a styling pattern there. I want to adopt it, but I also want to make sure I do it correctly, so is there somewhere I can check the standard styling conventions?Program working fine for relatively smaller numbers but goes haywire for very large numbersI was working on a problem which asked to compute the smallest number of notes to give an amount input by the user.
The only allowed denominations were 1, 2, 5, 10, 50, and 100.
THE ISSUE: My code works fine for smaller values like 3000, 4000, etc. but gives the wrong answer for really large numbers like 1234554875687.
Why is this so and what is the solution to that?
On many platforms (including yours, it seems), the int data type is 32 bits wide – which means it can hold a maximum value of 2147483647. The test value you cite for failure is much larger than this, so your program exhibits peculiar (undefined) behaviour.
To allow for a much larger range of numbers, you can use the long long int type; or, better still (IMHO), the int64_t type (defined in the <stdint.h> header).
When using this type, you will need to change your format specifiers for scanf and printf accordingly. The SCNd64 and PRId64 specifiers (defined in the <inttypes.h> header) should be used for input and output (respectively) of 64-bit signed integers in the d format. These are defined as tokens that include delimiting double quotes (e.g. "lld" for PRId64), so the format strings look a bit weird, at first; but you'll get used to that.
Note also that I have added a check for the return value of the scanf call; this is something that you should get used to doing – it will save you a lot of time and grief, in the long run.
Since (at least) the C 2011 Standard, a long long int must be at least 64 bits in width, so it may be easier to use the long long int and just change your %d format specifiers (in both the scanf and printf calls) to %lld – thus removing the need for the extra two header files and the use of the PRId64 and SCNd64 format strings.
The values given below shall be replaced by constant expressions suitable for use in #if preprocessing directives. … Their implementation-defined values shall be equal or greater in magnitude (absolute value) to those shown, with the same sign.
Remember to use the correct format specifier in your printf() and scanf() function calls (e.g.:- %li for long or %lu for unsigned long)SSL certificate pinning (OpenSSL / C)Can anyone point me to a basic tutorial on how to implement a certificate pinning in C, using openSSL? This is what I have so far:
My server's certificate, which will be part of my client
At the client I've added this code (minus some printings I removed here..):
But what I want is not only to check if the server's certificate is valid, but also that it was signed by the same CA I have at my client. How to implement that functionality?How do I find biggest difference between adjacent array elements?I have already sorted the array in descending order, now I need to find the biggest difference between adjacent elements.
The i variable is not  initalized in the function.
Then you have an overflow problem in your loop for(i=0;i<n;i++)
I will only write the corrected version of calculation part here as it is the main part needs to be corrected,Good Luck and please comment if it didn't solve the problem.First to get this: abs (true) is always true. iirc Standard says true value is non-zero and false is 0. So no matter what a > b returns, it is not going to change if (abs(a[i + 1] - a[i] > max)). Meaning if a > b returns -1 it is equally true as if it returns 1.
I have sorted array
I'm using G++ compilers, when I include the <stdio.h> library in my code, it gives this error C standard already adds int8_t in stdint.h. However it requires to define INT8_MAX macro in such a case. Just wrap your typedef with this macro
From the file includes/types.h. Or do not include stdint.h.I'm struggling with scanf with floatI am having some issues with the scanf function.
But there are many other issues.  At the very least, you must check the values returned by scanf, and you should use int main(void) or int main(int argc, char **argv).  eg:
If you don't check the value returned by scanf, you don't know if any data was written into the variable.  Since neither choise nor grade is initialized, attempting to read those values if scanf did not assign to them is undefined behavior.  The behavior is also undefined if the input stream contains a value that cannot be represented as a float (eg, if it is a value greater than FLT_MAX), but that's really just an argument for avoiding scanf rather than a suggestion to try to make scanf usable.  You can try to use scanf to make a user friendly interface, but it's really not worth the effort.  Much better to simply abort on bad input.  (If you want a user friendly interface, I would recommend you are using the wrong language.)  See http://sekrit.de/webdocs/c/beginners-guide-away-from-scanf.html for more details on why you really ought to just avoid scanf completely.These calls of printf
In the first call you are trying to output a single character as a string. In the second call you are trying to output a pointer of the type float * as an object of the type float.
The %s format specifier should only be used for strings (null-terminated sequences of characters), not individual characters. The expression &choice does not point to a string, as the character sequence is not null-terminated.
Also, the %c and %f format specifiers require values, not addresses, when using them with printf. Only when using them with scanf should you pass an address.formating issueI've been trying for a few days now to solve my error in a code that is supposed to convert and print # of inserted minutes in days and years, but unfortunately, the code refuses to cooperate.
is there anything I formatted or wrote incorrectly?
edit- a friend of mine suggested me to change formats to lf, and it somehow worked. is there some sort of a bug? because in 2 different codes, same format gave different results for a double type...Why passing Go bytes to C, the bytes length doesn't match in cgo in this code below?When passing golang bytes to C, the bytes length doesn't match.
The resulting strlen(key) and keylen doesnt match up.
Build with "go build file.go"
The C strlen function is for use with null-terminated strings, not pointer+length strings.
You can print a pointer+length string with the C printf function using %.*s instead of %s. Since Go string and []byte variables both use the pointer+length encoding, that is probably the right way to print a string obtained from Go.sendmsg() and recvmsg() system callsI have been working on socket programming and I have encountered a problem. I am using sendmsg and recvmsg system calls to send messages to server from client and print it at server. I am using the UDP protocol. However its throwing the error: Invalid argument.
Is there a way to set/clear a bit from an unknown byte whilst leaving all other bits unchanged?I am wanting to write to a register.
The register holds 1 byte of information. I wish to change bit 6 for argument's sake.
The way I am accomplishing this right now is to read the register, then do a set/clear.
This way I only change the bit I am interested in, and leave the rest untouched.
Is there a way I can set or reset the nth bit without knowing that the byte is? This way I can avoid having to read the register first.Is there a way I can set or reset the nth bit without knowing that the byte is? This way I can avoid having to read the register first.
There is no standard way to perform such a thing in C. Even in the event that you have a machine with individually addressable bits, the C language does not define any means of accessing memory in units smaller than 8 bits, no matter what the capabilities of the underlying hardware.
Therefore, in standard C, if you want to modify an individual bit without modifying any of the other bits nearby then you must accomplish it by at the same time overwriting at least seven bits near that one with the same values they already have.  That means you must either have the current values of those bits or not care what values are written to them.As an addition to @John's answer:
Very popular ARM Cortex-M(3,4) uCs have bit-banding memory area. All bits in this area are individually addressable. So you can simply read or write one bit by simple resing or writing to that address.