how to uninstall MinGW and make cygwin 'make' as deafult make program with gcc 3.8.1How to uninstall MinGW?
I have installed it for some software but now I don't use that software at all and so I need to remove the MinGW in order to use Cygwin for android development.
How to set the Cygwin 'make' file as default with GCC 3.8.1?
I am on windows 7 64-bit Answer 1:
if you have used an installer, uninstall it through program manager
Remove your MinGW folder (eg. C:/MinGW)
Make sure there's no MinGW path left in PATH environment variable
If you haven't used an installer, you can skip 1., but if you have, you should check 2. and 3. manually. 
Do you use an IDE? If yes you can specify your make / gcc there. You can set an absolute path to the correct program too.We can't uninstall MinGW with program manager. Just delete the folder and the environment variable.libcurl curl_multi CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS memory managementWhen is it safe to re-use the CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS buffer?
I'm guessing it's not safe so I would need to malloc a buffer for each handle, but I don't see a way to attach a context pointer to a CURL handle so would I need to maintain a map of handle + buffers to cleanup when I get CURLMSG_DONE from curl_multi_info_read?It looks like if I use CURLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDS instead of CURLOPT_POSTFIELDS then my above code will work.
The documentation also says that CURLOPT_POSTFIELDSIZE should be set before CURLOPT_COPYPOSTFIELDSHow to loop through keys and values in C using the json-c library?I'm using json-c to parse json. Is it possible to loop through the keys and values.
this function requires prior knowledge what the keys are. What if we don't know the keys and we have to loop through them.You can start at the json_object_object_foreach macro
Is there a way to re-write this using a double pointer (**)? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.I take the question to be whether it is possible to return the result via an out parameter, which would need to be a double pointer because the value to be returned is a (single) pointer.  Yes, of course that's possible:
For starters the function is incorrect. It can invoke undefined behavior at least because there is no check whether the pointer first_entry is equal to NULL.
Also within the function the pointer previous is not being changed. So the function always returns the value of the passed to it pointer first_entry due to this assignment.
So the function as it is written does not make a sense.
It seems that the function is designed to return a pointer to a pointer in the list that points to a node with the given value of the parameter key.
Using this function you will be able to insert a new node before the node with the given value of key or to remove a node from the list with the given value of key.
The function declaration and definition can look as shown in the demonstrative program below.
As you can see you are able to insert a node with key equal to 2 before the node with key equal to 3. Or you can remove the node before the node with key equal to 2 or the first node using the function.From smartphone, so I keep it terse.
Yes, in C it is the most elegant way to use an alias, a pointer to a variable.
Normally on has a node* head and you do
will point to (is an alias of) either head or a next field. Thus you can remove or insert nodes.
The code above assumes the key is found.
So a previous pointer is not needed as for instance in Java. A unique feature of C.Merge Sort Time in C This is my virtual machine:
I know that merge sort is O(nlogn), so when I experiment with different array lengths, I find that the time consumption varies a lot in one area, and it doesn't fit O(nlogn).After many attempts, I found a threshold.
When I define N as 4193789, the time is 1s, but when I change N to 4193790, the time will increase to 34s!
I wonder why there is such a threshold.
Why the omp method get slower when a big array (more than 4193790)?
I want to know why the parallel code is twice as fast as the serial code at N= 4000000, but the serial code is slower at N=4193790. Almost three times slower. I want to know why the omp get slower?Aside from the calls to build with -O2 or -O3 in the comments, the most expensive thing your code is doing is calling malloc and free to build a temporary array on every invocation of merge_sort. Memory allocations being done on each iteration of a high-performance loop can slow things down greatly.
The easy fix is just do a single allocation of that temp buffer exactly once - and to make it big enough for all scenarios.
Then free li_tmp elsewhere after the merge-sort has run to completion.
As to why different sizes for N cause different perf changes, I don't think that's worth getting into without these optimizations and compiler switches applied.  The most likely hypothesis is that the array sizes caused by different sizes of N, trigger more "paging" between cache memory and main RAM.  Or these large block allocations stress the memory manager in different ways.Reduce the number of executions by 3 times, but the execution efficiency is almost unchanged. In CIn C, I reduced the total number of loop executions by nearly 3 times, but through testing the execution time, I found that there is almost no improvement in doing so. All optimization levels have been tested, and the results are basically the same(including O0, O1, O2 and O3). I guess it’s a problem with the compiler, but I want to know what causes this situation. And what to do to make the results meet expectations.
The problem comes from the processor itself and not the compiler. This is a complex problem related to the behaviour of the CPU caches, CPU prefetching units and the random access pattern.
Both codes read the tex array based i value that cannot be easily predicted ahead of time by the processor because of the random increments stored in the rand_arr. Because tex is relatively big, it will likely not be fully stored in L1 cache (nor in an intermediate L2 cache if any) but rather in the last-level cache (LLC) or even in RAM. As a result, tex need to be reloaded in each loops from the LLC cache or the RAM. The latency of the LLC cache and the RAM are relatively big nowadays. This thing is that the second loop is harder to predict and less cache-friendly than the first although the number of iteration is smaller!
On x86 CPU, caches pack values by block of 64 bytes called a cache line. When a value is fetched from the main memory or another cache (typically due to a cache miss), a full cache line is fetched. The following accesses to the same cache line are faster because the CPU do not need to fetch it again (as long as the cache line is not invalidated).
In the first loop, the average increment of i is 128 (because the mean of rand_arr is 128). This means that the average stride between two fetched item from tex is 128. In the worst case, the stride is 256. In the second loop, the average stride is 256+128=384 and in the worst case it is 256+256=512. When the stride is smaller than 64, there is a high probability that is will be already fetched in the first case while this is never the case in the second loop. Moreover, the prefetching units can prefetch cache line when several access are contiguous or close each other. This enable the processor to most items of the tex array ahead of time in the first loop. Meanwhile, in the second loop the prefetcher will likely fail to recognize any cache line fetching access. The prefetching units will probably not prefetch anything (because it is too expensive to do that) and the result is many cache misses with a high latency that cannot be mitigated because the accesses are inherently sequential and unpredictible. If the prefeteching units decide to prefetch all the cache lines, then the second loop should not be faster than the first (because the two loops are both bound by the memory hierarchy).
Note that random and srandom are not standard functions.
Also, be aware that clock is not always precise on all platforms. Actually, it as a precision of 1 ms on my Windows (using GCC and MinGW). This can also be seen on some Linux systems.There are a couple of things that could be causing this:
Then print your results/do analysis on it after. You do some math on it and use the PRINTF function which is horrifically inefficient as far as timing goes. Also the cast to double is not necessary, and can be causing the vast majority of your timing, as double math is horrifically slow. Stick to int as this is potentially 1000x faster
Which is odd as far as syntax goes, and may be affecting your timing
this may be affecting your timing. If clock() is returning a double I would suggest doing it a different way, with a function that returns int or unsigned int, as doubles will destroy your timing as stated above. If you're worried about this, I'd suggest testing it by way of the following:
this in itself can be the main source of your base-timing (although it's unlikely, especially since it doesn't seem like you're doing any particularly complicated math. You can fix this buy using the #pragma unroll processor instruction, which will basically copy and paste all iterations of your for loop into your code, removing it's timing affectsIs memset(&ptr, 0, sizeof(ptr)); the same as ptr=NULL;?May I set a pointer to NULL portably (at least according to the POSIX standard) by memsetting it to zero?  Or even memsetting the struct that contains it (where it becomes actually useful)?
expands to an implementation-defined null pointer constant
Hence it seems that Posix will guarantee that memset(&ptr, 0, sizeof(ptr)) will have the same effect as ptr=NULL (and this is mostly likely already the case on all existing implementations). However, the statements will not necessarily assign identical bit patterns to ptr.
It is important to notice that the C standard (and Posix, also with the mentioned update) does not guarantee that the bit pattern of a null pointer is unique. Thus, in principle ptr=NULL could assign a different bit pattern to ptr than memset(&ptr, 0, sizeof(ptr)) as long as this bit pattern is also a null pointer.
The standard does guarantee (clause 6.3.2.3 paragraph 4) that
Any two null pointers shall compare equal.
Thus if ptr and ptr2 are both null pointers, then ptr == ptr2 evaluates to true. However, memcmp(&ptr, &ptr2, sizeof(ptr)) may not evaluate to 0. Why does the following program - passing c string to function - not produce the desired output?I have a simple question C++ (or C).
Why does the following program, passing c string to function, not produce the desired output?
All I'm doing is passing the address of the char array str to a function taking pointer to pointer to char (which after the explicit conversion should be just fine).
But then the program prints nothing.
However this will work with the strNew variable that has been dynamically allocated.
I know that I shouldn't be doing this and be using std::string instead. I'm only doing this for study purposes. 
When you do a cast like (char **), you aren't specifying which of const_cast, static_cast and / or reinterpret_cast you want, but instead whichever are neccessary to get from your expression's type to the target type.
The expression &str has type char (*)[30], so you are doing a reinterpret_cast to an unrelated type.
The expression &strNew has type char **, so you don't need a cast at all.
When you are writing C++ you should never use a C style cast. You should instead use whichever of the C++ casts (static_cast, const_cast, reinterpret_cast) that you intend.Dangling pointer: reference to local variable not destroying [duplicate]This question already has answers here:While reading about the dangling pointers, I came across some examples and concepts of dangling pointers. Basically, Dangling pointers are those pointers that used to point to some valid memory address but that memory address is no longer valid(local variables, releasing the memory).
Which gives the error that: address of local variable is returned and it is in sync with dangling pointer concept.
My doubt here is that, fun() returns a int pointer and this pointer contains the address of the local variable a. After the function returns back the memory of a should be released then why does this code works without any error.
This being the standard example to demonstrate dangling pointers.
Any one please let me know where my thinking is wrong and what happening behind the scene.
I am using windows10, MinGW compiler with VSCode.First two examples are equivalent, and in all examples a dangling pointer is used. The compiler doesn’t show you the error in the second example because it is not required to do so, but it is nevertheless invalid, its behavior is undefined. And undefined means undefined, i.e. anything is allowed, including seemingly valid behavior, but more likely data corruption, crashing, or whatever (a.k.a. nasal demons).Encapsulation in driver wrapper using an abstract structI wanna ask, if this is a valid approach for my driver wrapper encapsulation or if there is a better way. My target is to hide the handle of the underlying driver, so the header does not include the driver library.
Thanks for help and advise!It is widely considered good encapsulation practice in C to declare but not define a struct in a header and to keep the definition private.  This is especially useful if some of the members of the struct are types which require including extra headers that you do not want to include elsewhere.
However, many open source projects written in C (such as linux) have coding standards which forbid to typdef a struct and forbid to typedef a pointer.  They say that it is important that the person using your code knows what is a pointer and what is a compound type so you should not try to hide this.
Opinions on this differ, and what you have done is (or at least used to be) common practice in windows based code, so you should consider what is the common style in the industry where this code will be used.
Finally, having a function that returns a pointer to static data is fairly common in C applications, but it does limit the expandability of your code and possibly prevent it from being re-used as a library.  You need to think carefully whether there is really only going to only ever be one instance of this type.  Maybe you need to have a pair of functions which allocate and release instances of this type using heap memory.Xcode puts C VLAs on the stack and not on the heapXcode puts C variable-length arrays on the stack and not on the heap.
Is this correct? If yes, considering VLAs should let developer avoid malloc-free calls, why Xcode does it?Using the stack is the natural way to implement variable-length arrays and any other object with automatic storage duration because:
The stack is designed for last-in-first-out memory use: The data for a function (or a nested block) is pushed onto the stack when the function starts, and it is removed from the stack when execution of the function ends.
Allocation and release are easy. Each is achieved just by adjusting the stack pointer, and it can be easily adjusted by the size needed for a variable-length array.
Implementing them with allocation from the same pool used for malloc would be a problem because a function is not always terminated by returning. C has setjmp and longjmp features that allow jumping directly to an earlier point in the call stack. longjmp can be implemented mostly by setting the stack pointer and program counter to the values they had when the setjmp was performed, and those values are stored in the setjmp context object. If variable-length arrays were allocated from the malloc pool, it would be necessary to go through all the levels of the call tree on the stack, find the variable-length arrays that were allocated in each, and free them. And that means it would also be necessary to create records of those allocations in the stack tree as they are made.Using an assembly function in a C programim having a small issue with my assembly function that i made.
The issue im having is that my C program is not giving the assembly function the right arguments, in my C file i use _curpos(20,40) but it doesn't use the values in the parentheses. Instead it uses some garbage number from the previous scanf(); input.
Is there something im mis-declaring, prototyping incorrectly, or forgot?
I'm using OpenWatcom and MASM 6.11.
For what it's worth it may be better to use inline assembly for this instead of doing a full implementation in asm. If you use inline asm the compiler takes care of all of this, you just have to get the inputs into registers, not write code that returns.Size of struct dependent of the position a union is placed withinI have following problem: In my code example, the too_long_CommandFrameStruct shows a size of 5, wheras all members added together have the size of 4. If I change the position of the union member to be first (like in shorter_CommandFrameStruct), the size is, like expected, 4.
Why does this happen and how can I prevent this? I'd like to have the order of the struct members as-is, because the struct gets byte-by-byte written to a (4-byte long) SPI buffer frame.
With the 5-byte long struct I have problems, because a nibble gets added between the unsigned int crc member and the union Commands cmdData. This nibble is probably causing the struct to grow to 4.5 and thus 5 bytes.
The code can be executed in an online compiler, like e.g. https://www.tutorialspoint.com/compile_c_online.php
Algorithm not getting into if condition (Sherlock and the Valid String)I am basically trying to solve this challenge. This is my code:
I realized it wasn't getting into the deletion++, and then I used a return "HAHA" to make sure of it.
For some reason, the condition freq!=arr[i] never gets satisfied, even when the content of the freq and arr[i] are different. I guess I am getting trapped in a very silly mistake here.This line has a problem:
I'm building go application that should be run on CortexA9 CPU and uses 3 different C/C++ shared libraries (I use C wrapper to call C++ code), when calling one of them (Clips rules engine http://www.clipsrules.net/) I accidentally get SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault, the library itself is quite old and well tested, also the same code works well on amd64  arch. The place where error occurs looks quite random, if I rewrite code to avoid the specific code lines, it will occur in the middle of an other function.
I use arm-buildroot-linux-gnueabi toolchain and arm-buildroot-linux-gnueabihf-gcc as C compiler, so is built with this CFLAGS: -Wall -std=c99 -O3 -fno-strict-aliasing -fPIC -march=armv7-a -mcpu=cortex-a9 -mfpu=neon -mfloat-abi=hard --sysroot=${some path}
If I build Clips as standalone binary (with this toolchain) and run some rules on it, it works well.
How I build golang app
I build app on docker golang:1.16-buster, where my toolchanin is placed
What did you expect to see?
I expect to see no unexpected signals.
What did you see instead?
While app is running, when I perform cgo calls from so library I get this (from gdb):
Thread 1 "myapp-arm" received signal SIGSEGV, Segmentation fault.
When running a c program on console, why isn't command "c" used (unlike python or java)? [closed]Closed. This question is opinion-based. It is not currently accepting answers.I have noticed that running a python program on console goes like this:
and running a java program on console goes like this:
but running a c program on console goes like this:
How come command "c" is not used? What's the reason there's no such thing, and the program runs just perfectly fine without it?There is no such thing as a "c" command. To keep things simple:
Python is an interpreted language. So you run the interpreter (python.exe) which reads and executes your program
Java is a compiled language, but it runs within a virtual machine. So you run the VM (java.exe) in which your program is executed
C is a compiled language with no VM. It generates an executable, which you run directly.python and java are instructions to the Python interpreter and the JVM (respectively). There really isn't any equivalent for C because it's typically compiled to an executable file that is directly loaded into memory launched by the OS (which is exactly what gcc is doing in this case).
For more details on how the OS does that, see: How does program execute? Where does the Operating Systems come into play?GCC compiles your C program to machine readable code that you typically want to be able to run by itself. There's no living C language interpreter for it to refer to, unlike languages like Python or R, just the instructions provided by the compiler.Is level order tree traversal possible with a non-binary search treeI am relatively new to understanding the breadth first search and was wondering if it was possible to perform a breadth first search on a tree that is not a binary tree? 
I am creating a program in C that crawls through directories given a starting point and it currently uses a depth first search, but this causes a stack overflow, so I was thinking of using a breadth first search but I could only find examples using binary search trees.
So, I am wondering if it is at all possible to perform a breadth first search on a tree with a random number of nodes on each level? If not, why?ESP32-Jetson Nano serial communication problem [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.We are working on a project that need to set up a communication between a Nvidia Jetson Nano and an ESP32 (LILYGO TTGO WIFI Bluetooth ESP-WROOM-32 ESP32).
We succeeded to do this communication with an USB cable but our former ESP32 broke. We received a new ESP32 and used the same code than before but the communication does not work anymore despite the establishment of the connection. The only thing that has changed is the port detected on the Jetson. With the former ESP32, it was “/dev/ttyUSB0” and with the new ESP32, it is “/dev/ttyACM0”.
We tried the communication with another Jetson Nano but the problem remain so we think that the problem is with the ESP32.
We also switched the ESP32 by an Arduino Uno card with the same code for testing the communication and it worked with the “/dev/ttyUSB0” port.
Our hypothesis is to force the Jetson Nano to detect the “/dev/ttyUSB0” port for the ESP32 card but we can’t find how to do it.
There's no guarantee that a device will get a specific device path. I'm not sure how it is determined by the OS exactly, but it might depend on the specific device chip. It could be the case that your second ESP32 uses a different USB chip for the comminucation.
(In Windows, every unique device, i.e. with a different serial number, will get a different COM port.)
As a solution/work-around: if you have only one serial port connected, or if you can recognize the device by its name, you could use serial.tools.list_ports.comports() to automatically determine the correct path at the Jetson Nano side.
Something like this will hopefully get you in the right direction:
The compiler will generate a file named SourceFileName.s, and you can use -o Name to give it a different name if desired.
Then you can use sed or other tools to extract the value.
In the __asm__, "i" says to generate an “immediate” operand. The (offsetof(struct A, b)) that follows that gives the value it should have. In the first quoted string, %c0 is replaced with the value of that operand.
The 0 indicates which operand to replace—if there were more than one listed later in the __asm__, they are numbered 0, 1, 2, 3, and so on. (There is also a mechanism for naming them instead, not shown here.) Normally, %0 would be replaced by the form of immediate operand suitable for the target assembly language, such as $1 or #1. However, the c modifier says to use the bare constant, so the replacement text is just the value, in this case 1.Given this macro:
This is a bit fragile and won't work if your source.h includes a main function, so it may need some tinkering to fulfill your needs.One possible way is to make the offset the size of an array and then pass the address of that array to a function expecting an incompatible pointer so it prints the type:
So I expected that if I ran file1 I would get 0 printed in the console,  but if I ran file2 first and then file1, I would get 1 printed out.
Am I wrong about the way extern works?Assuming that you are compiling both file1.c and file2.c into a single binary.
For sharing variable between different files you can also use #defines and #ifdef macros.
i. declare #define __MAIN__ (this is just for example, it could be anything) at start of the files before all include statement in one of the .c file
ii. in header.h you can do the following,
Assuming that both file1.c and file2.c will be compiled into different binary and while running both will act as 2 different process then:
i. There are IPC techniques for communications between 2 process, for your case shared memory would be appropriate.
ii. You can use System V shared memory or POSIX shared memory, following links are here for reference.
How do i ensure multiplication of int array with char array?Build a const int-string value pair look-up table sorted in alphabetic order.
Take user input as string and use it as search key.
For large amounts of data, consider using a hash table instead.So I am trying to make this challenge
It looks like it never gets to the first "NO" if I start the iteration with i=1 (the loop never ends), but it gets with i=0.
What's the matter?undefined reference to 'XXX' after using #define _GNU_SOURCEI used search.h for my c program, where I need to put #define _GNU_SOURCE to the first line in order to introduce multiple hash tables. But after that, errors like undefined reference to 'log10' and undefined reference to 'PQntuples' popped up. I certainly need all the packages there, how should I now compile the program? Any help would be deeply appreciated! Thanks.
I'd like to be able to access the fields of sign, exponent, implicit and mantissa separately as bits!, and manipulate them with bitwise operations like AND, OR, XOR ... or string operations like 'left', mid etc.
And then I'd like to puzzle a new double together from the manipulated bits.
e.g. setting the sign bit to 1 would make the number negative, adding or subtracting 1 to/from the exponent would double/halve the value, stripping all bits behind the position indicated by the recalculated (unbiased) value of the exponent would convert the value to an integer and so on.
Other tasks would/could be to find the last set bit, calculate how much it contributes to the value, check if the last bit is '1' (binary 'odd') or '0' (binary 'even') and the like.
I have seen similar in programs, just can't find it on the fly. I may remember something with 'reinterpret cast' or similar? I think there are libraries or toolkits or 'howtos' around which offer access to such, and hope here are reading people who can point me to such.
I'd like a solution near simple processor instructions and simple C code. I'm working in Debian Linux and compiling with gcc which was in by default.
startpoint is any double value i can address as 'x',
startpoint 2 is I'm not! an experienced programmer 
How to do easy, and get it working with good performance?This is straightforward, if a bit esoteric.
Step 1 is to access the individual bits of a float or double.  There are a number of ways of doing this, but the commonest are to use a char * pointer, or a union.  For our purposes today let's use a union:
So now x.bits lets us access the bits and bytes of our double value as a 64-bit unsigned int.  First, we could print them out:
and this matches the bits in your question, so it looks like you were right about the number 1234.6565.
What we have so far are the raw exponent and mantissa values.
As you know, the exponent is offset, and the mantissa has an implicit leading "1", so let's take care of those:
(Actually this isn't quite right.  Soon enough we're going to have to address some additional complications having to do with denormalized numbers, and infinities and NaNs.)
Now that we have the true mantissa and exponent, we can do some math to recombine them, to see if everything is working:
But if you try that, it gives the wrong answer, and it's because of a subtlety that, for me, is always the hardest part of this stuff: Where is the decimal point in the mantissa, really?"
(Actually, it's not a "decimal point", anyway, because we're not working in decimal.  Formally it's a "radix point", but that sounds too stuffy, so I'm going to keep using "decimal point", even though it's wrong.  Apologies to any pedants whom this rubs the wrong way.)
By subtracting 52, we've basically moved the decimal point 52 bits to the left, from the right edge of the mantissa to the left edge.
[True confession: I'm never sure, and the published documentation
is always frustratingly vague, on the exact location of the
decimal point in actual floating-point representations.  I always
want to put the decimal point to the left of the implicit 1 bit,
which is equivalent to computing pow(2, exponent - 53) — except that gets the wrong answer.  So, here, empiricism wins out over strict intellectual rigor, and we'll go with exponent - 52 because it works, even if I can't quite properly explain why.)
At any rate, check is now 1234.6565 (plus or minus some roundoff error).
Going back in the other direction is just about as straightforward:
Actually I want to use that decimal64 value in somewhere instead string format.
But if I want to use decimal64 data type i.e variable a it is not displaying actual value but if I see variable string it is showing actual value.
Now I need the decimal64 value not in string formatIn your code snippet, variable a is of type decimal64, which is a kind of "opaque" type, i.e.: you can only use a with the provided functions that operate on decimal64 values (in particular, decimal64ToNumber()).
The same concept can be applied to variable d, which is of type decNumber: you can only use d with the functions that accept decNumber as parameter.
If you want to perform arithmetical operations on a, you must first convert it to decNumber (using decimal64ToNumber()).
If you want to display the value of a, you may use decimal64ToString() to convert it to string. You cannot read the actual value of a without first converting it to string. (An alternative is to use decNumberToString(), if you already converted a to decNumber).
Because neither decimal 64 nor decNumber are native C data types supported by printf().send command from stm32 to another board to try if it's working [closed]Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.i am trying to link stm32 to other unit board already programmed when i enter for exemple a référence as input ( F01 98 7 /r) i expect in return to receive " OK " after the test
i've got this problem on cubemxIDEfile inode and data block inodei am reading a book for unix programming ,but a section confused me 
here as you can see each data block associated with an i-node ,i suppose that the datablock is the content of the file , but i've marked that no i-node point to a directory block so i think that a file has another inode different of that i-node associated with its data block
is that true ?? please could someone help me understand that stuff ?Cant manage to compile and make C code for ATtiny85I am new to writing code for controllers and I really need some help.
I am using the ATtiny85 controller and I would like it to write a simple
I am using a Raspberry PI 3 to program the ATtiny and I have been struggling with
write and compile a code to do so.
This is the code I have been trying to program:
Is this code is in the right direction? Also How do I compile and make a hex file out of it?
I used this make file (Which I did not write myself so it might be not suitable for what I am trying to do):
When I run make command I get an error which says "error: unkown type name 'class'" - in the TinyI2CMaster library as such as in the Tiny4kOLED library which are written in cpp.
If anyone could help me understand how to do this right I would be very grateful!
what condition should be in order to draw a graph as in the figure having a series of numbers and the difference between the columns is a constant? My only problem is what condition I need to set to get such a graph. the graph is drawn using a 2D array
the graph in the figure is for a series of numbers: 4, -3, 7, 0 ,1Conditions to be met for being able to "draw" a chart like that by simple output, e.g. printf().
know the highest value beforehand
know the index of the highest value beforehand
same for the others but the highest is needed first
(because you cannot print vertically, you need to print horizontally)
With those conditions met (easy if the values are in an array), you can print line by line. Keep track of the "line value", it starts with the highest value and decrements each line.
If a value is higher than the line value (or lower, once you cross 0 line value) print a '|' on the right index-matching position within the line. If a value is equal to the line value print a '*'.
Otherwise print a ' ', or in case of 0 line value a '-'.Modifying extension list in X509 certificate using OpenSSL in CI am tring to insert signed sct into a precertificate that has a poison extension.
So I first remove the poison extension, then add the SCT.
This code seems to work, all step are fine, problem is, the final certificate displayed, when I save it to a file and run the command:
it is the same as the original precertificate, it contains the poison extension and no SCT.
Even comparing both files, they are identical.
Where did I go wrong?Your main problem is that for X509 X509_CRL X509_REQ when created by parsing input i.e. not built up from scratch OpenSSL saves the tbs encoding and reuses it on output (and digesting and comparison, which is why your X509_cmp failed) even if you have changed some of the fields that go in that encoding, unless you sign the change(s) which you must to make the resulting object valid anyway. In short, you need to call X509_sign() or the extended form X509_sign_ctx() after making your changes.
After fixing that you have another problem: it does remove the poison ext and add an SCT ext -- which contains garbage, because your unnecessary call to d2i_SCT_LIST has changed the pointer you use. Removing that, plus your other unneeded cruft, produces the following code that works (with a precert and key of my own) to produce a correct-looking cert, though of course the SCTs you provided aren't valid for it:
This is the output of running the program and sending a few requests from browser
Killed I have fixed it. I was not closing file descriptors so my current positions always stayed at the end of files in re-fetch attempts from firefox. Now working this is the full working code
Relationship between C11 atomics and sequence pointsI basically have the following code snippet:
For correctness, it is important that the atomic load of another Atomic Counter occurs after the fetch-and-sub (FAS) of atomicCounter. With the given memory orders, this would normally not be guaranteed and the load could happen before the FAS. However, I was wondering how sequence points have an affect on this particular code. The standard mentions that
If evaluation A is sequenced before evaluation B, then evaluation of A will be complete before evaluation of B begins.
There is a sequence point after evaluation of the first (left) operand and before evaluation of the second (right) operand of the following binary operators: && (logical AND), || (logical OR), and , (comma).
this means that the atomic load must happen after the comparison but the comparison can only be completed once the result of the FAS is known.
My question is whether these rules guarantee that the atomic load always happens after the FAS, even when using more relaxed memory orders?
Thanks in advance!Linux Makefile build in android(arm64-v8a)I have a C project which contains makefiles to generate binary for linux. i want to build the same source for android(arm64-v8a). Being a noob in NDK development, Can someone please guide step by step or any reference for the same?
I have taken the following reference too for preserving the same compiler and linker flags.
If I mark waitpid(pid, NULL, WUNTRACED), there will be (no such process) problem, but if waitpid is added, it can be executed normally. I want to ask what causes it.'too few argument in function call' (visual studio). i cant open the file. How to solve this?'too few argument in function call' (visual studio). i cant open the file. How to solve this?
Too few arguments in function call means that you called a function (fopen_s in this case) with 2 arguments, but the function requires 3 arguments.
How to solve? Simply search and read the documentation for fopen_s(). Often enough, there are also examples of usage.
After reading the docs, you will find out that this is how you use fopen_s():
Why can't I use "%[^\n]" scanset?I'm trying to get user input for my string with spaces on my program but for some reason %[^\n] doesn't work.
The % part is marked red. I couldn't understand why. It just skips and doesn't ask for user input.
int prelim, midterm, semiFinal, final, totalScore, yearLevel, studentId;
The s is not part of the %[ format specifier as people new to C often think.
The ampersand should be removed as the name of an array decays to a pointer to its first element which is already the type that %[ expects.
Now, to answer your question, %[^\n] will fail if the first character it sees is a \n. For the scanf for studentId, you type the number and press Enter. That scanf consumes the number but leaves the enter character (\n) in the input stream. Then, the scanf for name sees the newline character and since it's the first character that it sees, it fails without touching name. The next scanf fails for the same reason and the last scanf waits for a number.
But wait! Why doesn't the last scanf fail as well? The answer to that is certain format specifiers like %d skip leading whitespace characters. The %[ format specifier does not.
Now how do we fix this? One easy solution would be to tell scanf to skip whitespace characters before the %[ format specifier. You can do this by adding a space before it: scanf(" %[^\n]", name). When scanf sees the space, it will skip all whitespace characters from the input stream until the first non-whitespace character. This should solve your problem.C/C++ printf() before scanf() issueI'm using Eclipse to code in C/C++ and I'm struggling with what might be something pretty easy. In my code below I use printf() and after scanf(). Althougth printf is written before scanf() the output differs. I was able to find out something about similar issue here. But I wasn't able to solve it. Any ideas?
so finally I used something similar to what @zsawyer wrote as an option labelled 3.
Fast and painless, I've just defined a macro named "eprint" to add a flush() after calling printf(...) and I just use the eprint macro below:
I've just wasted 30 minutes looking up this eclipse console issue and possible fixes, and this one seems to be the most straight forward and easy to understand for anyone looking for such a thing.What is the difference between CStringGetTextDatum() and CStringGetDatum() in Postgresql?In a previous question about using CStrings to create table data in an SQL extension, it was a problem to use Datums made from CStringGetDatum() for table columns that expect VARCHAR. The solution was to use CStringGetTextDatum(). Now i am curious why.
Here are the function definitions, but i am not sure, in which situation to use CStringGetDatum() over the second, if you can't use the first with CStrings:
The data type text or varchar is not stored as a zero-terminated array of characters. It is a varlena, which has the length (and other stuff) stored in the beginning.
The data type cstring is for a C string and is an internal data type in PostgreSQL. You can never use it in SQL.
Use CStringGetDatum whenever you need to pass a Datum that is a C string and use CStringGetTextDatum to convert a C string to a text or varchar that you need to pass as a Datum.Is there any way to disable echo of only specified characters on terminal using C?I know that I can unset ECHO flag in struct termios to disable echo of all characters, or I can unset ECHOCTL flag to disable echo of characters like ^C, ^\ , etc. But I have three questions here:
Is there any way to disable only specified characters, like only disable ^\ ?
You don't need to do anything fancy. Just walk the string from the beginning, updating a variable with the address of the character you're looking for every time it's found, and return it when you hit the end of the string (Unlike strchr(), where you return after the first match). That way you only need one pass through the string instead of the two times it takes if you first find the length and then go backwards.
arser gives a unknown type name error for entry_tI'm editing my first parser and I'm very new to compiler design. I'm using a hashtable to store tokens. I have created a struct called struct_t in my symboletable.h file.
When I try to create a new entry_t in .y file under %union to be used in lex file. But it gives an error in compile time as:
I cant figure out why unknown file type error is given. If you can please point me in the right direction.Assuming you are the same Shehan who yesterday asked this question with remarkably similar code, what I said then still applies:
If this is the first time you've attempted to write a C application with more than one source file, you should probably take a few minutes to review how linking multiple files works in C. That will save you a lot of frustration later.
This is precisely the sort of frustration I was referring to.
The error you are receiving comes from attempting to compile lex.yy.c. That file, which is generated from lexl.l, does not #include "symboltable.h", but it does #include "y.tab.h". In y.tab.h, entry_t is used in the declaration of the union semantic type, but since symboltable.h has not been included, entry_t has not been defined.
But just adding #include "symboltable.h" won't work, so please don't do it.
symboltable.h is not a correct header file, as has been mentioned in a comment by @JonathanLeffler. Header files must not contain function definitions, only declarations. Furthermore, symboltable.h does not have inclusion guards, so nothing stops it from being included twice, resulting in duplicate definition errors.
But the way your files are set up, you shouldn't be compiling lex.yy.c in the first place. Your parser.y file includes the line
which, as might be expected, includes the entire text of lex.yy.c in the source being compiled when you compile y.tab.c. I don't believe you thought this trick up yourself; I think you copied it from some tutorial written by someone who was too lazy to attempt to explain how to set up a project with multiple sources. Although it is possible to make things work for simple parsers, it's not going to serve you well in the future, and you should not start your learning about parsers by learning bad habits.
So I say once again: please start by learning how to create a C project with multiple source and header files. Otherwise, your attempt to learn how to use bison and flex will be much harder and more frustrating than necessary.How to use Ptrace_interrupt commandI wrote a sample exercise about ptrace on how to use ptrace, but I encountered some strange problems
After the execution, my program is still executing without interruption.
I have also read the manual page, after PTRACE_SEIZE, you can use PTRACE_INTERRUPT to suspend the program. I don’t know if anyone can help me.Incorrect ouput when tracking frequency of words in Doubly Linked ListThe purpose of the program is to take words from a file and put them in a doubly linked list while keeping track of the frequency the words appear in the file (without repeating the word)
I am having trouble finding a way to track the frequency and make sure that repeated words show up only once in the output.
my output yields the words and just zeros, so the incrementation is not occurring but the words are being inserted in the list.
Is there any method to accept the exact msg sent by client to server in C for windowshere I have tried for the TCP client-server program in which client and server send msg to each other .but in my code the server will automatically take any msg before sending the msg from client . don't know what to do ahead.. please any one help me out with this problem.thank you for answering. here I have enclosed output which i had get for client and server along with my client and server code
The C standard does not define what is supposed to happen for your program. So in principal anything may happen and random values could be the result. No one can tell for sure what your code wil do (without having expert level knowledge of the specific system you are using).
However, on most systems your code will take 1 byte from the pointer and print it as-if it was a character. So the (likely) reason for your "random characters" is that the address of the array is different every time you start the program. And that is exactly what many systems do...
They use "Address Space Layout Randomization". This basically means that the address of things in your program (here the array) are randomly determined during program start up. The idea is to make it harder for hackers to exploit your program.
It is always a bug to use a pointer before it has been initialized. It does not yet point at valid memory. 
These examples could all lead to program crashes or other kinds of unexpected behavior, such as "segmentation faults":
Instead, you must ensure that the pointer points at (enough) allocated memory:
Yet, should you attempt to access the memory pointed at by a null pointer, you can get similar problems as when using an uninitialized pointer: crashes or segmentation faults. In the best case, your system notices that you are trying to access the address null and then throws a "null pointer exception". 
The solution for null pointer exception bugs is the same: you must set the pointer to point at valid memory before using it.
Pointers pointing at invalid data
How to access a local variable from a different function using pointers?
Can a local variable's memory be accessed outside its scope?
Segmentation fault and causes
What is a segmentation fault?
Why do I get a segmentation fault when writing to a string initialized with "char *s" but not "char s[]"?
What is the difference between char s[] and char *s?
Definitive List of Common Reasons for Segmentation Faults
What is a bus error?Pointers only point to a memory location. You created a pointer but you did not bind to a memory location yet. strcpy wants you to pass two pointers (first one mustn't be constant) that point to two character arrays like this signature:
You can try the following code snippet to read string until reaching newline character (*you can also add other whitespace characters like "%[^\t\n]s"(tab, newline) or "%[^ \t\n]s" (space, tab, newline)).
One situation that frequently occurs while learning C is trying to use single quotes to denote a string literal:
This happens because you have not allocated memory for the pointer char* ptr .
In this case you have to dynamically allocate memory for the pointer.
Two functions malloc() and calloc() can be used for dynamic memory allocation.
When the use of *ptr over don't forget to deallocate memory allocated for *ptr .This can be done using free() function.
They're the most efficient way of representing something whose state is defined by several "yes or no" properties.  ACLs are a good example; if you have let's say 4 discrete permissions (read, write, execute, change policy), it's better to store this in 1 byte rather than waste 4.  These can be mapped to enumeration types in many languages for added convenience.
Communication over ports/sockets
Always involves checksums, parity, stop bits, flow control algorithms, and so on, which usually depend on the logic values of individual bytes as opposed to numeric values, since the medium may only be capable of transmitting one bit at a time.
Compression, Encryption
Both of these are heavily dependent on bitwise algorithms.  Look at the deflate algorithm for an example - everything is in bits, not bytes.
Finite State Machines
I'm speaking primarily of the kind embedded in some piece of hardware, although they can be found in software too.  These are combinatorial in nature - they might literally be getting "compiled" down to a bunch of logic gates, so they have to be expressed as AND, OR, NOT, etc.
There's hardly enough space here to get into every area where these operators are used in graphics programming.  XOR (or ^) is particularly interesting here because applying the same input a second time will undo the first.  Older GUIs used to rely on this for selection highlighting and other overlays, in order to eliminate the need for costly redraws.  They're still useful in slow graphics protocols (i.e. remote desktop).
Those were just the first few examples I came up with - this is hardly an exhaustive list.Is it odd? 
Is it divisible by two (even)? 
I've used bitwise operations in implementing a security model for a CMS. It had pages which could be accessed by users if they were in appropriate groups. A user could be in multiple groups, so we needed to check if there was an intersection between the users groups and the pages groups. So we assigned each group a unique power-of-2 identifier, e.g.:
We OR these values together, and store the value (as a single int) with the page. E.g. if a page could be accessed by groups A & B, we store the value 3 (which in binary is 00000011) as the pages access control. In much the same way, we store a value of ORed group identifiers with a user to represent which groups they are in.
So to check if a given user can access a given page, you just need to AND the values together and check if the value is non-zero. This is very fast as this check is implemented in a single instruction, no looping, no database round-trips.Here's some common idioms dealing with flags stored as individual bits.
Mask out specific bits.
You are defining the specific bits which should be displayed
or not displayed. 0x0 & x will clear all bits in a byte while 0xFF will not change x.
0x0F will display the bits in the lower nibble.
To cast shorter variables into longer ones with bit identity it is necessary to adjust the bits because -1 in an int is 0xFFFFFFFF while -1 in a long is 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF. To preserve
the identity you apply a mask after conversion.
Set bits. The bits will be set indepently if they are already set. Many datastructures (bitfields) have flags like IS_HSET = 0, IS_VSET = 1 which can be indepently set.
It can be shown that all possible local bit operations can be implemented by these operations.
So if you like you can implement an ADD instruction solely by bit operations.
Some wonderful hacks:
When I have a bunch of boolean flags, I like to store them all in an int.
You can use them as a quick and dirty way to hash data.
Specially the shift operator (<< >>) are often used for calculations. In the abstracted world of today's modern language, not too many.  File IO is an easy one that comes to mind, though that's exercising bitwise operations on something already implemented and is not implementing something that uses bitwise operations.  Still, as an easy example, this code demonstrates removing the read-only attribute on a file (so that it can be used with a new FileStream specifying FileMode.Create) in c#:
As far as custom implementations, here's a recent example:
I created a "message center" for sending secure messages from one installation of our distributed application to another.  Basically, it's analogous to email, complete with Inbox, Outbox, Sent, etc, but it also has guaranteed delivery with read receipts, so there are additional subfolders beyond "inbox" and "sent."  What this amounted to was a requirement for me to define generically what's "in the inbox" or what's "in the sent folder".  Of the sent folder, I need to know what's read and what's unread.  Of what's unread, I need to know what's received and what's not received.  I use this information to build a dynamic where clause which filters a local datasource and displays the appropriate information.
Do you see what this does?  By anding (&) with the "Inbox" enum value, InboundMemos, I know that InboundMemosForMyOrders is in the inbox.  
Here's a boiled down version of the method that builds and returns the filter that defines a view for the currently selected folder:
Extremely simple, but a neat implementation at a level of abstraction that doesn't typically require bitwise operations.Usually bitwise operations are faster than doing multiply/divide. So if you need to  multiply a variable x by say 9, you will do x<<3 + x which would be a few cycles faster than x*9. If this code is inside an ISR, you will save on response time.
Similarly if you want to use an array as a circular queue, it'd be faster (and more elegant) to handle wrap around checks with bit wise operations. (your array size should be a power of 2). Eg: , you can use tail = ((tail & MASK) + 1) instead of tail = ((tail +1) < size) ? tail+1 : 0, if you want to insert/delete.
Also if you want a error flag to hold multiple error codes together, each bit can hold a separate value. You can AND it with each individual error code as a check. This is used in Unix error codes.
Also a n-bit bitmap can be a really cool and compact data structure. If you want to allocate a resource pool of size n, we can use a n-bits to represent the current status.Base64 encoding is an example.  Base64 encoding is used to represent binary data as a printable characters for sending over email systems (and other purposes).  Base64 encoding converts a series of 8 bit bytes into 6 bit character lookup indexes.  Bit operations, shifting, and'ing, or'ing, not'ing are very useful for implementing the bit operations necessary for Base64 encoding and decoding.  
This of course is only 1 of countless examples.I'm suprised no one picked the obvious answer for the Internet age.  Calculating valid network addresses for a subnet.
This is the simplest approach, if you'd like to avoid if statement, you can use modulus approach like so:
The down side of these two methods is that modulus operator is expensive, since it looks for a remainder after integer division. And the first method runs an if statement on each iteration. With bitwise operator however if length of your array is a power of 2, you can easily generate a sequence like 0 .. length - 1 by using & (bitwise and) operator like so i & length. So knowing this, the code from above becomes
Here is how it works. In binary format every number that is power of 2 subtracted by 1 is expressed only with ones. For example 3 in binary is 11, 7 is 111, 15 is 1111 and so on, you get the idea. Now, what happens if you & any number against a number consisting only of ones in binary? Let's say we do this:
If num is smaller or equal to 7 then the result will be num because each bit &-ed with 1 is itself. If num is bigger than 7, during the & operation computer will consider 7's leading zeros which of course will stay as zeros after & operation only the trailing part will remain. Like in case of 9 & 7 in binary it will look like
the result will be 0001 which is 1 in decimal and addresses second element in array.Nobody seems to have mentioned fixed point maths.
(Yeah, I'm old, ok?)Is a number x a power of 2? (Useful for example in algorithms where a counter is incremented, and an action is to be taken only logarithmic number of times)
Which is the highest bit of an integer x? (This for example can be used to find the minimum power of 2 that is larger than x)
Which is the lowest 1 bit of an integer x? (Helps find number of times divisible by 2.)
This is probably only useful being an alternative to modulus operation with a very big dividend that is 2^N... But even then its speed boost over the modulus operation is negligible in my test on .NET 2.0. I suspect modern compilers already perform optimizations like this. Anyone know more about this?I use them for multi select options, this way I only store one value instead of 10 or moreit can also be handy in a sql relational model, let's say you have the following tables: BlogEntry, BlogCategory
traditonally you could create a n-n relationship between them using a BlogEntryCategory table
or when there are not that much BlogCategory records you could use one value in BlogEntry to link to multiple BlogCategory records just like you would do with flagged enums,
in most RDBMS there are also a very fast operators to select on that 'flagged' column...When you only want to change some bits of a microcontroller's Outputs, but the register to write to is a byte, you do something like this (pseudocode):
Of course, many microcontrollers allow you to change each bit individually...I've seen them used in role based access control systems.There is a real world use in my question here - 
Respond to only the first WM_KEYDOWN notification?
When consuming a  WM_KEYDOWN message in the windows C api bit 30 specifies the previous key state. The value is 1 if the key is down before the message is sent, or it is zero if the key is upThey are mostly used for bitwise operations (surprise). Here are a few real-world examples found in PHP codebase.