Segmentation fault (core dumped) in C code [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.can anyone tell me what is causing this error and how I can fix it? A, B, and C aren't arrays, they're scalars. When you access them as arrays you're accessing invalid memory, which is undefined behavior. If you want arrays, you could do:
Is buggy.  Because you are passing a pointer to a single instance of a double for all three variables: A, B, and C.  But you are accessing each as if they were an array within your function.  Any index other than 0 is invalid until you allocate an array of proper size.Returning from a signal handler via setcontextI'm trying to use the third argument of a SA_SIGINFO sigaction to jump to the interrupted context directly.
but curiously it accepts three signals (that invoke the setcontext-calling handler), and then it segfaults
and the fault address shown by strace is 0 (a catchable SIGSEGV).
Here's an example program that's using a timer to send the three signals:
What is going on in this situation?I think this is something that's simply not meant to work: you are only supposed to call setcontext with a context obtained from getcontext or makecontext, and not with the context passed to a signal handler.
The man page hints at this obliquely:
If the context was obtained by a call to a signal handler, then old standard text says that "program execution continues with the program instruction following the instruction interrupted by the signal". However, this sentence was removed in SUSv2, and the present verdict is "the result is unspecified".
Also, the glibc source of setcontext has a comment:
This implementation is intended to be used for synchronous context
switches only.  Therefore, it does not have to restore anything
other than the PRESERVED state.
Indeed, it does not attempt to restore any of the floating-point registers, and it zeroes rax (as for getcontext returning 0).  That would be pretty bad for trying to resume code that isn't expecting its registers to change spontaneously.
Asynchronous context switching would be needed for something like preemptive multitasking in userspace.  I think the idea is that since pthreads is now firmly established, people should have no need for this, so it's not supported.  getcontext/setcontext date from an earlier era, and in fact have since been removed from the POSIX spec on the premise that pthreads should be used instead.
This particular crash seems to be caused by a mismatch between the kernel's layout of struct ucontext_t, and what libc expects.  In particular, libc expects the floating-point state, including the saved value of mxcsr, at a particular offset within struct ucontext_t.  However the kernel pushes the floating point state at a separate location on the stack (which happens to overlap where libc expects it), and includes a pointer to it inside struct ucontext_t.  So libc's setcontext attempts to load some garbage value into mxcsr, which has some of the reserved bits 16-31 set, and this causes a general protection fault.
However, as noted above, this mismatch is the least of the problems.C: variadic functions with void pointersI'm new to C and trying to create a variadic function that takes in void pointers. However, I'm getting some unexpected behavior that I don't really understand...
Any insight into what's happening here would be greatly appreciated!Your code looks for va_arg to return NULL in order to exit the loop, and that would only happen if you actually explicitly pass NULL as an argument.  The compiler doesn't magically add it. As such, after running through the arguments actually passed, the loop continues reading arguments that aren't there, which is undefined behavior (a likely outcome is that you read whatever garbage is in the unused registers or memory).
So your call should look more like
The difference between get or get1 routines and get0 routines is that the former allocate a copy, which you should free using the appropriate routine when done to avoid a memory leak; the latter (get0) share existing memory and should not be freed, but must not be used if the thing they are sharing is freed or otherwise invalidated.
I compile that code by running afl-gcc test.c -o test and i tested it just to make sure it crashes when it was suppose to (running ./test $(python3 -c "print('A'*26)") will give a segmentation fault as expected)
The problem here is, i created a testcase echo -en "test\x00" > input/testcase and run AFL afl-fuzz  -i afl_in -o afl_out -- ./test but after a day it still hasn't found any crashes.
I also tried to create a test case that would force it crash python3 -c "print('A'*26)" > input/testcase but it still runs and does not find anything.
This was suppose to be the easiest example so i could get to know AFL a bit better but it is proving to be a challege. Can anyone help?Just as Nick ODell post it in the comments
Seems like AFL expects the program under test to read from STDIN rather than an argument. github.com/google/AFL#6-fuzzing-binaries
Following that URL shows an experimental module that allows for AFL to read from an argument, and for that to work i just had to add 2 lines to my existing code:
After that i just compiled it again and everything worked as expected.Extracting values from string in C [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.So what I need is to parse a string from input and extract some values in variables, for example
I have this input delete -filter year 2020 and I need to copy year into a variable and 2020 into another one. But delete year 2020 is also a valid input so my issue is how can I extract the values in an elegant way without knowing if the string contains -filter ?FFT returns NaN valuesI'm trying to use the FFTW for my large project, so I wrote a basic program to check if the FFT is working or not. I am trying to send sine values to the FFT and back. After using the FFT forwards and FFT backwards I get exactly the same results, but I get a NaN value at the first element of the array. I read in some of the questions here that the issue is the data type, I need to use long double and fftwl to maintain accuracy of the results.
Where is the problem? Is it in the data type and how can I solve it?
As noticed by @Dietrich Epp ,  fftwl_execute(plan_b) runs after the output is copied, therefore the output  is left unchanged. In addition, FFTW_BACKWARD performs the backward DFT, but it does not mean that the argument in is used as output. Even with flag FFTW_BACKWARD, the input argument of fftw_plan_dft_1d() is in and the output is out.
See for instance that example of forward then backward transform : FFTW forward and back ward yield in different results why?
More elaborate input error checking possible with fgets(), strtol().You can do it easily if you declare your variables as a string, then later if it is correct, you can change it to an integer.
Making sure that user's input is really an integer is quite tricky in C, and scanf() isn't gonna help you much (even if used correctly, it still won't warn you about integer overflows, for instance).
One alternative is to read a line using fgets() and then parse it with atoi(), but fgets() will give you headaches when input line is longer than maximum length. Also, atoi() won't let you know if the number is valid or not (technically it does catch some errors, but you cannot distinguish them from 0), so it may be replaced with strtol().
Therefore, this is a possible approach:
why does the string comparison not working wellI'm currently still studying C language and this is the first small program (finding the area of a TRIANGLE or a SQUARE or a CIRCLE, value is based on user input) that i made. there isn't any error, but I think the function's placement is incorrect. Whenever I type the SHAPE that I want to find, it just immediately went to the ELSE statement ("OTHER SHAPE NOT AVAILABLE"). Can you guys help show me what is wrong?
One problem is that your producer thread does not verify whether avail is zero before setting it to one. When the condition broadcasts, that is no guarantee that the waiting consumer thread gets scheduled immediately or even first. And when it gets scheduled, it still must lock the mutex first that it relinquished when it started to wait. It is perfectly possible that the producer's loop runs a few times before that happens.
If you want to force a consumption after a production, you should make the producer check if the avail-able thing has been consumed, for example by writing your loop as follows:
Why C standard defined that the global variables should be initialized to 0?I have question 'Why are global variables always initialized to 0?'.
And I found the answer here.
Why are global variables always initialized to '0', but not local variables?
However, I have a new question.
Why C standard defined that the global variables should be initialized to 0? Why don't they initialize it to another number?(1, 2, 3...)For all built in data types, zero is represented by a sequence of zero-value binary digits.  Regardless of the width of the data type, all zeros, resolves to an arithmetic value of zero. The runtime start-up code does not zero-initialise individual variables, rather it zeros the entire block of memory in which the variables are instantiated.
By using zero, all float, double, int, char etc. have a value that can be compared to literal zero (0) and match.  If you initialised with any other byte value (remember the block not the variables are initialised) the effective variable value would depend the data type (its width and representation).
Moreover zero-initialisation ensures that all pointers have a value NULL rather then some arbitrary and meaningless and possibly invalid address that would cause undefined behaviour if dereferenced.What's in include/uapi of kernel source projectCan someone please give me a document to describe the kernel source folders about their structure, functionality and how they are organized?
Specifically, what's the use of of the folder include/uapi/**? 
Thanks.The uapi folder is supposed to contain the user space API of the kernel.  Then upon kernel installation, the uapi include files become the top level /usr/include/linux/ files. (I'm not entirely clear on what exceptions remain.)
The other headers in theory are then private to the kernel. This allow clean separation of the user-visible and kernel-only structures which previously were intermingled in a single header file.
The best discussion I have seen of this is located at a Linux Weekly News article that predates the patch landing. 
The UAPI patch itself landed with kernel 3.7.  Linus's quick and dirty summary is:
Now the task is to create a function allocate_obj which will give some fixed global property (say 32) and initialize the other personal property's memebers (i.e. p1,p2 to 0)
I was able to achieve following code
I think there is two possible causes, either the library is not link at all, which seems to be the most logical issue to me, which raises the question: what exactly do the println!'s and #link do in this specific scenarion, they do not cause a panic! or error so they must definitly be doing something right? Whatever it is, it cannot be linking the project.
The other issue I can imagine is that there is in fact proper linking going on-ish? But Rust just doesn't understand where exactly to find the function hello within my_c_project.lib...
I really want to stress that I want to stay away from cc and cmake (crates) since I have the .lib file ready to go... The question remains, how to call the C functions from a .lib file from within a Rust program?
Thanks for the help!C programming: Array of strings only prints capital SI'm writing a simple Operating system in assembly and c, but at the moment I'm stuck when implementing interrupts. When calling for example interrupt "int 0x02", the kernel prints the correct interrupt number, but cannot display the right error string and only prints an "S". What could be the problem here?
I'm following this tutorial: https://github.com/cfenollosa/os-tutorial
When I eventually had it working, I started adding IRQs, but when I did that, the printing of error strings stopped working again. I noticed that only deleting code from interupt.asm made it work again.
Why doesn't my code run? What are the errors? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.So basically this was my question. Given a sorted array of distinct integers and a target value, return the index if the target is found. If not, return the index where it would be if it were inserted in order. The approach which I used here is I first checked if the target element is in the array or not. If it is found in array then I am returning the index of that element and if it is not in that sorted array then what I did it is inserted that element in a position where it should be and then increased size of array by one .. and finally returned that index. So what's the problem in my approach?You define n but do not use it.
You call searchInsert(int *nums, int numsSize, int target) with numsSize=5 but inside searchinsert you all the time grow this limit.  So it will try and fetch an invalid address.I am getting a segementation Error in pointer when i try to print a string using char * it,why? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.It works so far but when I call printf on s it's giving me a segmentation error.
I don't know why.  Can anyone explain?  I am using linux and gcc.In this case, p and s are null pointers; they don't point to any valid memory. You must allocate memory for them to point to. See the example below.
If the data you expect to put into p and s is larger than 10 bytes, allocate more.segfault only when NOT using debuggerI have a multithreaded C program, which consistently generates a segmentation fault at a specific point in the program. When I run it with gdb, no fault is shown. Can you think of any reason why the fault might occur only when not using the debugger? It's pretty annoying not being able to use it to find the problem!Classic Heisenbug. From Wikipedia:
Time can also be a factor in heisenbugs. Executing a program under control of a debugger can change the execution timing of the program as compared to normal execution. Time-sensitive bugs such as race conditions may not reproduce when the program is slowed down by single-stepping source lines in the debugger. This is particularly true when the behavior involves interaction with an entity not under the control of a debugger, such as when debugging network packet processing between two machines and only one is under debugger control.
The debugger may be changing timing, and hiding a race condition.
On Linux, GDB also disables address space randomization, and your crash may be specific to address space layout. Try (gdb) set disable-randomization off.
Finally, ulimit -c unlimited and post-mortem debugging (already suggested by Robie) may work.Perhaps when using gdb memory is mapped in a location which your over/under flow doesn't trample on memory that causes a crash.  Or it could be a race condition that is no longer getting tripped.  Although it sounds unintuitive, you should be happy your program was nice enough to crash on you.
I'm trying to copy every element from the given position to the left, and then just return the array. I don't get what is going wrong. Also I'm trying to remove the ifrom the parameter, but if I do that and put i=0 inside the function, then i is always gonna be 0.Did it:
How can an operating system detect an out of range segmentation fault in C?I encounter this problem when learning Operating System and I'm really interested in how operating system detecs whether an array index is out of range and therefore produce a segmentation fault?
The code above will absolutely produce a segmentation fault, since ptr0 is not allocated with any memory.
But if add one line, things change.
This code won't cause any fault, even you change ptr0[0] to ptr0[1000], it still won't cause any segmentation fault.
I don't know why the line has such power
I tried to disassmbly these codes but find little information.
Could somebody explain that to me on the perspective of memory allocation? thanks a lot.A segmentation fault happens when a process attempts to access memory it's not supposed to, not necessarily if an array is read out of bounds.
In your particular case the variable ptr0 is uninitialized, and so if you attempt to read it any value may be read and it need not even be consistent.  So in the case of the first program the value that was read happened to be an invalid memory address and attempting to read from that address triggered a sigfault, while in the case of the second program the value read happened to be a valid address for the program and so a segfault was not generated.
When I ran these programs, both resulted in a segfault.  This demonstrates the undefined behavior present in the program which attempts to dereference an invalid pointer.
When a program has undefined behavior, the C standard makes no guarantees regarding what the program will do.  It may crash, it may output unexpected results, or it may appear to work properly.The operating system and the hardware maintain a map of memory in the process’ virtual address space. Each time the process accesses memory, the hardware consults the map information and decides whether or not the access is allowed. If the access is not allowed, it generates a trap to alert the operating system.
This process will catch many incorrect accesses—it will catch all those that attempt to read or write memory that is not mapped or that attempt to write memory that is mapped read-only. It will not catch all incorrect accesses—it will not catch accesses that are to a wrong location (in terms of what the program’s author or user desires) but that are within mapped memory and the appropriate permissions.
Commonly, the operating system’s map information is more complete than the hardware’s. The operating system may map only a subset of the a process’ address space. This is because processes often do not use all of their address space (code and data to handle rare errors is often not executed or used) or do not use all of it all the time (processes spend some time doing one task before going on to another, and perhaps later returning to an earlier task). So, when the hardware reports a memory access fault to the operating system, the operating system will consult its complete information. If the process is allowed to access the attempted location, the operating system will set up physical memory as necessary, update the map for the hardware, and resume execution of the process. If the process is not allowed to access the attempted location, the operating system will report a signal to the process or terminate it or take other appropriate action.
Since ptr0 is not initialized, its value is indeterminate. When calculating the address for ptr0[0], the compiler will not necessarily use an address outside the process’ address space; it might use an address that is inside the address space and writable. In this case, storing 1 in that location will not generate a segmentation fault.
Due to a special rule in the C standard (C 2018 6.3.2.1 2), using the uninitialized object ptr0 in this situation results in the behavior of the program not being defined by the C standard. The compiler may transform this compiler to any other program.
Even if ptr0 were defined, the compiler may observe that the program has no defined observable behavior—it does not read any input, print anything, write anything to files, or change any volatile objects. So the compiler may optimize the program by changing it to an empty main function that does nothing.
If there is any change here, using char *ptr0; char *ptr1 = ptr0;, it is mere happenstance of the compiler. This program has the same semantics as the earlier program.
From your other comments, you might have intended to write char ptr0[0]; instead of char *ptr;. Zero-length arrays are not defined by the C standard. However, some compilers may allow them, as an extension to the C standard. In this case, what likely happens is that the compiler picks a location to put the array, likely on the stack. Then ptr0[0] = 1; attempts to store a byte at that location. Although the array has been assigned a location, zero bytes there are reserved for it. Instead, those bytes may be in use for something else. Possibly they are the function return address or possibly they are just filler used to help align the stack. In this case, ptr0[0] = 1; might overwrite necessary data for your program and break it. Or it might overwrite unused data and have no effect. Or, again, the behavior of your program is not defined by the C standard, so the compiler might transform it in other ways.Compile Cuda and C libI have .cu .c ans .h to compile into lib.o
Then I compile nvcc -Iinclude *.cu *.c -o lib.o
but I have on my cuda functions in .cu : error: linkage specification is incompatible with previous
How to compile properly (maybe using gcc)? Access function member using it addressTrying to access/print function member using following snippet
and looking to get value of i through last printf statement but wondering if it is possible this way?
And this idea does not make sense either. The variable i will typically not be exist nearby the function code. Also, it will typically be created at different places on different calls.
That's perfectly valid, even if the usefulness could be discussed.
But you will never be able to access it via an offset to the function pointer. At least not in a legal way.Can I publish a crate that uses a patch?The section in the Rust documentation that talks about patching explains how to implement a patch, but all of the examples it uses are for "testing" and short term fixing. What I want to do is make a patch for one of the crates I depend on that bumps its sub-dependencies, and then I would then like to publish my crate with its patched dependencies on crates.io. However, when you create a patch you have to list a path dependency, as in the example:
I assume this would prevent me from publishing my crate, since I now have a dependency on something not in crates.io.
So overall my question is: can I publish a crate to crates.io that uses a local patch? If not, is there another workaround for this situation?It is not possible
It is possible to specify both a registry version and a git or path location. The git or path dependency will be used locally (in which case the version is checked against the local copy), and when published to a registry like crates.io, it will use the registry version. Other combinations are not allowed.
You will need to have the dependency uploaded to crates.io.Abstraction Stream CHow can a data stream work for a file on the hard drive and also for a printer? Is there an abstraction layer before the "Stream" that separates the devices with their respective properties?Is there an abstraction layer before the "Stream" that separates the devices with their respective properties?
You've tagged C and mentioned it in the question title, but this is not a characteristic of the C language or standard library.  C provides for I/O via streams, but it does not speak to what kinds of devices are served that way.
The "everything is a file" paradigm is a characteristic of UNIX (which you've also tagged).  That's where the abstraction resides.  A program running in a hosted C implementation on UNIX can access different kinds of devices via streams because the operating system provides for it.  It can also use the same set of POSIX low-level I/O functions for all those devices, because, again, the OS provides for it.  This is effectively the realm of device drivers and the interfaces that the OS kernel requires them to provide.The stream is the abstraction (or at least part of the abstraction).  The standard library provides you with a single, consistent interface for doing stream operations, regardless of whether the target is your console, a file on disk, a printer, or some other destination.  You just call fopen, fscanf, fwrite, etc., and don't worry about the details.
The implementations of fopen, fread, fwrite, etc., make all the system-specific calls to necessary manipulate files or open I/O channels to other devices.  And even those are usually higher-level abstractions provided by file systems and device drivers.  Naturally, implementations on Windows make different calls than implementations on *nix than implementations on MacOS, etc.How to judge whether stdout supports ANSI escape codeIn a terminal that does not support ANSI escape code, outputting a color control code like \033[0m will not only have no effect, but will also disturb the terminal.
I know a json formatting tool called jq, which judges whether the terminal can use ANSI escape code.
I want to know, how to realize this function through C programming language?On Linux and probably POSIX systems, you might use isatty(3) with STDOUT_FILENO. See also stdio(3) and fileno(3).
and you have to bet that in 2021 most terminal emulators support ANSI TTY escapes.
By the way, jq is an open source software tool. You are allowed to download then study its source code.
I want to know what #define HEADERFILE_H define HEADERFILE_H to?
error: expected expressionA define preprocessing directive has the form # define identifier preprocessing-tokens, ending with a new-line character. The preprocessing-tokens is a list of zero or more preprocessing tokens. It may be empty, that is, it may have zero tokens. This means, that when the identifier is encountered in a place where macro replacement occurs, it will be replaced with nothing.1
Tests of the form #ifdef identifier, #ifndef identifier, or  define identifier in a #if or #elif directive test whether identifier is defined or not. If it was not defined (or its definition was removed with the #undef directive), then the test indicates it is not defined. If it was defined, then the test indicates it was defined, even if the definition is for zero tokens.
A definition with zero tokens is different from no definition at all, and defined identifier will evaluate as true for the former and false for the latter.
If the list does have tokens, then identifier will be replaced with those tokens and # and ## operators among them will be applied. A preprocessing token is largely an identifier (like foo34), a constant (like 3, 4u, or 1.8e4), one of the C operators or special characters (like * or +=), or certain other components of the C language.It actually defines "nothing else than itself". That is: you may define a macro without assigning it a specific value. Since you can check if a given macro is defined or not, you therefore can ask for the simple "existence" of a given macro.
This is useful to indicate a context (for example, if you're compiling for a given OS) and/or the availability of some resources.
In this particular example, this is a called a "guard": it will define itself if this hasn't been done first before, as well as including the rest of the file, which is totally embedded in the #ifdef … #endif clause.
This is used to implement a kind of require_once, that is something that will be included if needed, but not multiple times. This is required when you are defining functions or declaring variables at a global scope, for instance.This is a language idiom (I will comment it):
It is common to include some file that, indeed, #includes another, and that file includes another, leading to a point in which you don't know which files have been included and which don't.  This phrasing allows you to be protected, and to be able to #include the same file several times (normally you cannot, as some definitions cannot be repeated in the same compilation unit, e.g. declarations) the lines above will include the contents and define the identifier, making next inclussions (that are effectively done) not to include the contents, as the identifier appears as #definen in second and ulterior times.Saving the ASCII output to a variableThis C code converts a BMP image to a ASCII art. The output is displayed in the terminal.
However I want to modify the programme and save the outputted characters to a string variable. The problem being that img which outputs the characters is a image pointer.
Reading 8bit raw bytes from UART on RTEMS in embedded cI need to read 8 bit raw data from a UART on a LEON3 board using the RTEMS (4.10) operating system  - using the version distributed by Gailser who make the leon3 (RCC 1.2).
The following app is a simple demo app of the problem where I cannot read 8 bit data.
The app reads 1 byte at a time, and echos it back on to the same UART:
When I send the following raw binary data to the UART (using some python or a raw terminal like realterm)
sending 01111110 01111111 10000000 10000001 
I only recieve back the 7 bit/ASCI bytes - the latter 2 get completely ignored:
recieved 01111110 01111111
How do I configure the UART driver to read in 8 bit? The termios config above will write 8 bit (>127 decimal bytes) fine but for some reason cannot read them - any bytes with a leading 1 get ignored. Presumably the driver config is wrong?
Thanks!Project: NodeMCU esp8266-esp12e to connect to another esp8266-esp12e - social distancingI need to ring the buzzer within the range of 1 meter only, my esp8266 is connected to a buzzer but the buzzer will ring on and off within the range of 1 meter using two esp8266, or sometimes it does not ring at all. The project is social distancing, what else should I do? Here is the code I am using:
Why am I getting wrong output here? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.Want to improve this question? Add details and clarify the problem by editing this post.Given an integer array nums, return true if any value appears at least twice in the array, and return false if every element is distinct.This was the question for which I was supposed to write a boolean function.Could anyone tell what changes should I do in this code to get correct output?You have 2 major problems:
You compare identical elements which obviously are always same:
Starting from the source file add the following functions (insert new and modify record) [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.I need your help for this basic exercise of C and i need your help. starting from the source file the request is:
I need to insert new record (with new progressive serial number) and i need to modify an existing record (from a serial number).
Can you help me and provide me the insert instuctions andmodify instructions, please ?Having problem with scanf in while loop > 1#include <stdio.h>
Read in numbers and add only the positive one.
outside the loop as others advised nevertheless the function will be still incorrect. It will show that 0 and 1 are prime numbers while they are not.
Also the condition of the loop makes the loop inefficient at least because it is clear before entering the loop that any even number except 2 is not a prime number.
Pay attention to that the function parameter should have unsigned integer type.
The function can be defined the following way
I want to make *mymap[10] dynamic. Function prepare_mymapp()  will determine the number of elements in mymap; Out of which some are allocated and some are not. My question is without changing access methods in main is it possible to make static amap_t *mymap[10]; dynamic?
I do not want change main() since its a huge code that uses pointer and checking against NULL.
s there a way to avoid it? Will *** help me?One approach to make static amap_t* mymap[10] a dynamic array is to declare it this way:
Alternatively, your prepare_mymap() function may return directly the pointer (so you don't need a "three star" pointer as argument):
Global variables. I would rather not.
I can drill down with get_children() until I find the (only) GTKNotebook widget. This seems silly, wasteful, and subject to future breakage as I continue to work on it.
I can pass a struct down with the init requests, copy the needed widget pointers into it, and then pass that in custom signals so that the callback functions know which widget they are.
Does properly subclassing my GTKNotebook, and adding the callback to it, allow me to call some get_self() function for the widget's own pointer?
So far, so good. But now on_app_main_open() needs to call gtk_notebook_append_page(nbook_main, ...) to open a new tab and to attach an edit window to it. So how does on_app_main_open() know what the pointer is to nbook_main? I have two choices, I think:
Procedurally: I can create void nbook_filetab_open (GFile *location) in notebook.c and use a static global variable to copy the pointer into nbook_filetab_open(). I know this is a least-approved method.
Object-oriented: I can subclass all my code properly (which I will have to learn how to do), and then create ``nbook_filetab_open()as a registered callback. BUT: if/when I do that, what is the canonical GTK way to givenbook_filetab_open()the widget pointer tonbook_main```?
Or is the accepted GTK way just to grovel through the child widgets until I find a GtkNotebook widget that looks like the right one?
Static build of GMP for MSVC (Windows)Is it possible to build GMP for MSVC on Windows?
I need fully static solution (static library), without any DLL dependencies. So that my final EXE doesn't depend on any external (non-system) DLLs.
I'm alright if building GMP will need Cygwin or MSYS, as far as it can be used later in MSVC without any problems. But as far as I know at least Cygwin builds always depend on extra DLLs like  cygwin1.dll which is not affordable for me, fully static-library solution is needed.
I'm aware there exists MPIR library that is more Windows friendly. But right now I need specifically GMP solution if possible.
Of course would be great if all optimizations and assembly is used when building for Windows. But if assembly is not possible then at least non-assembly (generic) variant of GMP is needed.
Of course I need 64-bit version.
If someone can post all steps needed to produce such static library for MSVC usage? Or maybe link some web-site that has such instructions?Why does GCC use "mov edi, edi" for this unsigned integer to double conversion but not for signed? [duplicate]This question already has answers here:Now the program required 2 integer inputs, and prints the first input that was entered.
What difference should that extra \n brings?
I tried to search but couldn't find the answer, even through manual of scanf.An '\n' - or any whitespace character - in the format string consumes an entire (possibly empty) sequence of whitespace characters in the input. So the scanf only returns when it encounters the next non-whitespace character, or the end of the input stream (e.g. when the input is redirected from a file and its end is reached, or after you closed stdin with Ctrl-D).From man scanf in my Linux box:
A directive is one of the following:
A sequence of white-space characters (space, tab, newline, etc.; see isspace(3)).  This directive matches any amount of white space, including none, in the input.
The restriction is we can't use any other library. So how to solve thisbuff is a local variable to the function. It is initialized to point to the first element of the rb array in main but changes to buff will not change the rb array. So
Within the function update the parameter buff is a local variable of the function that will not be alive after exiting the function.
You can imagine the function call the following way
As you see the original array was not changed.
That is at first the pointer buff was initialized by the address of the first element of the source array rb.
What you need is to copy characters of the string literal "HII_O" into the source array rb using standard string function strcpy or strncpy.
I'm trying to write a code in C programming to find the most frequent word from a text file. Haven't coded with C for a while. So the program should read any size of text file (dynamic array), and it should find out what the most frequent word(string) is and its count. I'm not quite sure where I can start from.
I appreciate your help.How do I input n elements in a VLA and print them#include <stdio.h>
To create a VLA you need to know the length provided by the user first before creating the array, so Just as @JustASimpleLonelyProgrammer stated, you should only create the array after reading the value of n.
I recently starting learning programming in C and was wondering how I would go about making mods for video games. The game I'm focused on modding first is called Watch Dogs 2. The website Nexus Mods recently in the past year started posting mods for Watch Dogs 2 and it really caught my interest since I love games revolving around freerunning/parkour. I have already written down many mod ideas I have for that game and am curious about how I would go start my modding journey. If anyone has any knowledge in making video game modifications can you please tell me what to do or where to look to get started. Thanks!Some trouble with scanf() functionIt may seem simple to you, but I really don't understand what's wrong.
Why is the value I enter for b assigned to h?
That is, I can no longer enter steps. And the program immediately outputs a line. What is the problem?
That comma there in the format string means you need to enter a comma. Otherwise the scan fails after one item, leaving the 5 in the input stream.
If you checked the return value of the scanf, you would see it was one rather than two. That's why b is zero (though it could be any arbitrary value as you do not initialise it) and the 5 remaining in the input stream is being used in the following scanf which populates h.
The simplest fix is probably just use "%lf %lf" instead, with a space rather than a comma. White space is not considered a literal requirement for the exact characters, it will simply skip to the first non-whitespace character. From the ISO C11 standard on the scanf directives:
The format is composed of zero or more directives: one or more white-space characters, an ordinary multibyte character (neither % nor a white-space character), or a conversion specification.
A directive composed of white-space character(s) is executed by reading input up to the first non-white-space character (which remains unread), or until no more characters can be read.
A directive that is an ordinary multibyte character is executed by reading the next characters of the stream. If any of those characters differ from the ones composing the directive, the directive fails and the differing and subsequent characters remain unread.
A directive that is a conversion specification defines a set of matching input sequences, as described below for each specifier.
The comma, being neither whitespace nor a conversion specification (these start with %), falls under the purview of the "ordinary multibyte character" paragraph above.
As an aside, this is illustrated with the following program:
The y would be a nonsense int value. So I do not understand C++ pass by reference based on the above logic. Is there some compiler identification of what you are trying to do so it compiles it in a way that makes it equivalent to the C code? See below for C and C++ pass by pointer and by reference:
You are asking a question that starts holy wars.
An object is an instance of some kind of thing: it has its own memory and everything. A lot of objects in our code get names.
We dereference a pointer to get a direct reference to the object. The direct reference has no name, but it resolves to the same as having that object’s name.
The construct *y resolves to a direct reference (or alias) to x: accessing *y is the same as accessing x. But y itself is only a reference to its own object value.
The way we speak about these things gets people going. The C++ Standard has one way of doing it. CS literature throughout time has another. Very intelligent, knowledgeable people can vary in their opinions on this topic.
I personally have no problem referring to a pointer as a reference when talking in C. But in C++ such language gets confused with true references (not the indirect references that pointers are).
A common argument people like to have is whether references are really pointers or not. The answer is that it depends. Sometimes they are, sometimes they aren’t.
It is an infantile argument, because from the point of view provided by the C++ language they are different things. How they work underneath really only matters to the people who make compilers.
And then you have the whole pass-by-pointer holy war too... but best leave that one for a different SO question.
The trick is to understand what people mean when they refer to these things, and if you are unsure just ask. If someone gets loud and angry about the way you referred to it, just try to use the terminology that they used. They can go have baby cows without you.
In common C++, you have object values, pointers, and references, and depending on whom you ask, never shall they be confused. If you are unsure, just say that you passed a pointer to a function so that you could dereference it to get the target value, heh.LUMBER JACK question using domino effect to maximize the profitYou are a lumberjack in a roadside forest. Every day you would like to cut down trees of the maximum value in the limited time that you have. We represent a forest as a rectangular grid of dimensions n by n points. Each edge between the neighboring grid points has a length of 1. At the position of each point, there could be a tree. Each tree is described using the following parameters:
We calculate the value of each tree according to the formula: p Â· h Â· d. To cut down the tree, you have to reach it first. You can move only along the edges between the neighboring grid points. To cut down the tree at the position that you occupy you have to select one of four directions (along grid lines) in which the tree will fall. At the beginning of the day, you start in the lower-left corner of the forest, which is located at the point (0,0). You can assume that there is no tree there. If the tree that you cut falls on the other tree, which is lighter than the one that is falling, then this tree will also fall without being cut directly. We say that the tree is heavier if the total weight calculated as c Â· d Â· h is greater than the total weight of the second tree. In this way, one can achieve a domino effect by pushing one tree onto another. We assume that a tree falls on the other when the distance between them is less the height of this tree. Weights of trees do not cumulate - we always take into account only the weight of the tree, which directly fell onto another. If for example tree A falls onto tree B and its weight is greater than weight of tree B then it can push tree B onto another tree C located in the same direction if the distance between B and C is smaller to height of B and, moreover, tree C is lighter than tree B. When comparing trees B and C we do not take into account tree A that lays on tree B. Moreover, if tree B is not lighter than tree A then it blocks tree A and it will not have a chance to fall onto tree C.
Calculate the biggest profit that you can reach during t time units and provide a corresponding sequence of movements. Assume that the walk between the two neighboring grid points takes 1 unit of time, and cutting the tree takes d units of time.
I am not getting the required output for the given input. I had written the code in which lumber jack is moving from origin and reaching to its defined coordinate , for cutting the next tree I want my lumber jack should starts from the previous coordinate but he is again starting from origin. */