How it calculate size of array using pointer to array?I have this following code, which has pointer variable pointer to an 2D array.
So the expression sizeof( *ptr )  is equivalent to the expression sizeof( int[2][3] ).sizeof(ptr) is giving the size of the poiter itself which is 8 in your system
sizeof(*ptr) is giving you the size of the object referenced by the pointer ptr. As ptr is a pointer to the 2D array of 6 integers (3x2) then the size of that array is 24 bytes assuming the sizeof(int) == 4The expression ptr has type int (*)[2][3] (pointer to 2-element array of 3-element array of int) - it is a pointer type, so it's however big a pointer type is on your system (in this case, 8 bytes).
The expression *ptr has type int [2][3] - it's a 2x3 array of int, meaning it's big enough to store 6 int objects.  An int is 4 bytes wide on your system, for a total size of 24 bytes.
If the operand of sizeof is an expression instead of a type name, it goes by the type of the expression.  For example, the expression 1 has type int, the expression 2 has type int, and the expression 1 + 2 has type int, so
Remember that sizeof is an operator, not a function - you only need to use parentheses if the operand is a type name (like (int)) or if the operand is an expression containing operators of lower precedence.  For example
because the arithmetic + operator has lower precedence than the unary sizeof operator, which is probably not what you want.  However, expressions like
so parentheses aren't necessary in that case.  Some people will advise you to always use parentheses regardless, which isn't bad advice; eventually you'll learn when they aren't necessary and can be comfortable leaving them out.Why does C say ""character" is undefined", even though I have defined it in struct placed above it?I'm following a tutorial on how to make an operating system in C. Everything works in the tutorial, no error messages, nothing, while I get the error specified in the title. Is making variables from the struct "Char" global even an option?
I am fairly new to C, so I might not know even easier things than this.
I also apologize if this question has been asked already, I couldn't find the answer anywhere.struct Char empty = (struct Char) {
The struct needs to be present in both the translational units, so it is better to declare that in a header and then include that header wherever required.Are are elements of an empty array NULL valued?I tried this Armstrong program but found myself entangled in this empty array thing. Working of this program has been bothering me for a while now and still can't seem to figure it what's wrong here. Yea, so just wanted to ask what value are the elements of an empty or incomplete array assigned to? Is it the NULL character i.e. '\0'? I tried checking it on an online C compiler where this assertion seems true but GCC tells us the opposite. I tried this approach to Armstrong problem and here's my code:
I know there is other approach to this problem but what I am looking for is the answer to the above mentioned question.The values in that array are going to be undefined. They might be zero, they might be whatever values happened to be there from when that portion of the stack was last used. The same principle is applicable to heap memory.so just wanted to ask what value are the elements of an empty or incomplete array assigned to? Is it the NULL character i.e. '\0'?
No, when declared in the body of a function as you've done it here (i.e. with no initializer), the contents are undefined. In practice, the values will be whatever random data happens to have last been in the stack at those locations. When an "automatic" array is declared as you've done here, the compiler simply inserts a stack increment to reserve space, but does nothing else. It could be zero, but probably not.You have declared an array in a block scope without storage specifier static
such an array has automatic storage duration. That is it will not be alive after exiting the block where it is defined.
If you would declare the array in the file scope for example before the function main or with the storage specifier static in a block it would have static storage duration.
Add an end marker in your array, for instance, insert 'x' at the end of your array, and loop until you find the marker. Or just use a counter variable as in this code.
I hope this answers your question.The initial values of sto are indeterminate - they could be pretty much anything, and they can be different each time you run that code.
I am using getContext() and setContext() functions in the program and repeatedly blocking/unblocking signal using sigprocmask(). Is that the reason sigalrm not working?
Problem splitting a linked list into two other linked lists in cMy code is supposed stores 10 int numbers in a linked list, divide these 10 numbers equally into two other linked lists. But my two lists are returning empty
The variable size comes from a function that loops through my main list and returns its size.
Then created two "almost equal" functions to take the value from the main list and store it in the ListB and ListC.
for me linked lists is a very confusing contentThe split can be done in a single pass if we use two pointers. One that traverses via cur1 = cur1->next and another that traverses twice as fast (e.g. cur2 = cur2->next->next);
When cur2 reaches the end, cur1 will be at the midpoint.
When we pass a "single star" pointer that is the list start to a function that must adjust and return the head of the list, the adjustment will not be reflected back to the caller.
Rather than pass down "double star" pointers for this lists, it's easier/better to use a separate list struct in addition to the node struct.
Note that we could co-opt/reuse a [dummy] node as the list pointer, but it's more clear if we use the separate struct.
Below is some annotated code. Unfortunately, I had to refactor a good deal of it to get it to work.
A simple two pass version. One to compute the count and a second pass to do the split based on that count
An improved version that does the split in a single pass by using the "two pointer" technique mentioned above
How to convert number to a star symbol?I want to write a simple application that writes 3 numbers into an array. The numbers should be read in from the keyboard with scanf.
Take this written in javascript, you should be able to convert it in C for your project :)
The loops are the key, one to scan each element of the input array, and another to print as many * as the value of the array (1, 5 and 4)
A more efficient version would be to allocate the array once, and then reuse it. Here is an example. Note, that you need to handle cases with number more than 50.
I have seen similar issues before, but with no clear answer.
I am trying to run a program in GDB with input redirection
But when I do this the shell hangs, waiting for manual input instead of reading input from the file. I have gone through the process of creating code signing certificate for GDB, running as sudo, but the same issue occurs. 
I also know about MacOS's SIP and how that interferes. This link, coming from this StackOverflow post doesn't seem to offer any solutions. At least any solution that maintains the ability to use input/output redirection in GDB. 
If anyone has an answer and can clearly articulate it here, I would greatly appreciate it.Caveat: This isn't so much a complete solution as some workarounds and suggestions [that are too big to fit into a comment].
Does gdb's r command [under macOS] allow input redirection?
Can gdb be run under sudo?
If not, either the run command's input redirection does not work or there is a bug in the executable.
Side note: For many years, I did not know that run could take I/O redirection [silly me :-)].
What I usually do/did is modify the program to allow input either from stdin or from an argument [just like cat]. Then, I'd do:
The other issue is whether gdb can be run under sudo.
In the past, I've tried to debug a setuid executable as an ordinary user [if possible]. This eliminates the complexity of trying to run gdb and the executable as root. Sometimes this involves creating a test directory that mirrors/mimics the necessary file hierarchy [but the files are owned by the non-root user] and using (e.g.) chroot or equivalent
Much of the debug can be done this way without root privileges. For the parts that do require root, I often resort to printf debug messages--YMMV.
I'm not familiar with macOS, so I don't know how [the aformentioned] SIP will respond to the following 
Then, I run the modified programs. This can bypass some of the issues with using sudo directly on the target programs.
Of course, I try to make sure that there is no access to the containing directory by others. And, I remove the files when done testing.Arduino RichShield calculator- I need to make it so when I hold down the button there is no effectSo I am making an Arduino RichShield calculator and it works like this:
N.B. Depending on the hardware involved, you sometimes also need to account for the button "bouncing" a bit when released. You can do that by checking that the button stays low for some amount of time before treating it as "pressed".Function LValue in C Return Not Specified [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.I am trying to organize a C program and then generate a lex file. But there is one last error in the code that I don't understand
I have never worked with C before.
This changes the expression from an assignment to an evaluation, thus removing the need for an lvalueFile download with libssh SFTP is corruptI'm using libssh to download a file from a Debian Linux server on my local Windows machine, the program is running without error but the downloaded file is corrupted. When I download via pscp it works, I don't know if I'm doing something wrong with regards to the buffer or something else.
The sizes of the generated files are identical, when I download it via other tools like FileZilla or WinSCP everything goes well. The file doesn't corrupt anymore. When I run my code then it gets corrupted
I'm running this code on Windows 10 with Visual Studio 2019. After messing with this code a lot I think the problem is with the write file writing function when I open the generated file in a hex editor I see differences in bytes only the end of the file that stays the same.
I ended up posting the Dart version of the code previously, but the C version is almost identical to the Dart version.
Can you restoring the PE header from memory after deleting it? I was searching through several open source projects and came across one that says it restore PE header after deleting it, but it wasn't included. I was wondering if there was any way to restore the PE header after it had been erased.
It is possible. Usually, if not tampered with, PE Header in memory should be identical to the PE Header of the file from which process was created.Mappings between integer error codes and OpenSSL error constantsOpenSSL has a number of constants that it uses for errors. For example, SSL_ERROR_NONE means no error occurred, SSL_ERROR_WANT_READ means that not enough data was available, etc. You can find a complete list here: https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_get_error.html
In C, each of these constants is represented as an integer. Is there a way to find the mapping between the error codes and the actual integers that are used to hold them? For example, a page or a list in source code that says "0 is ERROR_NONE, 2 is WANT_READ", etc.
I tried reading through the source code for OpenSSL, but I could not find the constant definitions anywhere there.how to avoid multiple definitions when making copies of header filesI came across this problem and was trying to figure out the best solution.
I am currently working on a library called lib1.h and making some changes to it. I don't want to modify the original file directly so I made a copy and named it lib2.h.
Since I am not changing the names of all functions, I am getting multiple definition errors. My current solution is to move the original library out of the current directory and do a make clean and then compile. While this solution works for me, I am just curious if there is any way to keep the two header files in the same directory, or what is a better workflow.
I'd appreciate any pointers.Multiple definitions is a linker error, not compilation error. Why do you link both libraries? I guess you need only the newer (fixed) one.
I need to implement a function which receives the size of the array, an array type Packet and returns the most frequent IP source address within an array of structs. Here is my STRUCT array:
However my teacher explicitly states do the operation without using any brackets, ONLY using pointer arithmetrics this is what I have so far for my function:
I have NO CLUE how to find the most frequent SourceIP within the array of structs without using brackets [] a friend told me to use a MODE algorithm but I don't know how to implement it using pointers only. Please help.C removing wordsI have a homework in which I have to read a file word by word which I did (code below), and now I have a specific set of words (277 words to be exact) that I have to remove from it. I'm not sure how to tackle it, any help or tip would be appreciated
When I use qsort for submitting my code in cses problems set it is not accepting it. Is there any other way to resolve this?
Debugging qemu-arm SIGSEGVBackground
I am running the qemu-arm user space emulator inside of a Docker container on Docker for Mac.
I am working on a code base that runs on cortex-m4 processors.  I want to be able to cross-compile the code in the docker container to target the cortex-m4 processor and run that code on the qemu-arm user space emulator.
I use the debian:stable docker image as a base.
I compile the program with the GNU arm toolchain like so:
From what I understand, SIGSEGV occurs in a few scenarios, the only one that makes sense here is that I am accessing memory that I don't have access to when I attempt to run the binary in the qemu-arm user space.
It would seem that the si_addr=0x0007fff0 is the address that I am accessing that I am not supposed to.
Since my program does very little, I am assuming this inaccessible address might be where qemu-arm is attempting to store the binary to run? But I don't see an option in qemu-arm to specify this.
how can I verify what is attempting to access that inaccessible address?
if I am correct in my thinking (that this is where qemu-arm is attempting to store the binary to be run), is there a way to change that? I didn't see one in any of the command line options
The program you're compiling seems to be built with a bare-metal toolchain. It's not impossible to compile a bare-metal binary in such a way that it will run as a Linux user-space program as well, but you have to take specific steps to make it work that way.
For example, how are you expecting your program to produce output? Is the program going to want to talk directly to (emulated) hardware like a serial port, or to other devices? Does the program need to run interrupt handlers?
The best way to debug what's happening is to get QEMU to start its gdbstub, and connect an arm-aware gdb to it. Then you can single step through. (This will probably be a confusing introduction to your toolchain's C runtime startup code...)How to get xz values as vector 3 dimensional vectorI have following struct declaration, which I use in my code. But when I needed to render only x and z coords, I need somehow to get only xz coordinates from a value like Point1.XZ:
Suppose a Windows process address space layout looks like this where the circles are loaded modules such as LIBs, DLLs, OBJs etc.,... Only the green circle can write to the green memory region. However, the red circle has a bug (say, heap corruption) and happens to overwrite the memory region too. Application Verifier can detect heap corruption in real-time, however it's very intrusive in a live environment.
Are there any low-level mechanisms to detect that a memory write occurred and determine its origin? Just trying to make the program more sentient or self-healing before crashing to dumps.ERROR: Expected ";" in VS Code (using a macro)I have the following code:
This works pretty well in CLion but not in VS Code, I don't now why.
Thank you in advance.Because MSVC compiler does not support typeof extension.
Finding the number of elements in an modified array (duplicates removed)My array size (in terms of actual number of elements in it visually) will change so I have established an "open-ended" array with a relatively large size that I know it will never exceed.
I was wondering if there is a method to find the array size after modification (i.e: add, remove elements).Is there a workaround for adding too much data to a header file?I'm currently making a game with "multiple choices" which means a lot of questions. My thoughts first are making each question in a single .h file and then call the content inside the main file.
This means that I will have to include hundreds of header files. I don't know if this is okay as I'm new to programming. Is there any solution to this?
The problem is the 1st character is being omitted from the string.. & I need help to know why that's happening. Hence I used "_word", it works fine then.
I'm still an amateur programmer so the 'space, repeated characters & limited number of checks per character' features are not there. So I urge you to please use same case, no spaces or repeating letter, max 10 chars. Eg: Car, superman, robin, batmobile, spacex etc. will do.The "%s" conversion specifier expects to have a corresponding argument that is of type char * that contains the address of a buffer that is large enough to hold the string that is read from the input.  A buffer of size N can hold a string of length N - 1, so the buffer at &s can hold a string of length 0.  When scanf reads a string, it will write the characters (plus a null terminator) into the buffer.  When you write char s; scanf("%s", &s), there is only enough room for one character.  If scanf reads more than 0 characters, it will overflow the buffer when it writes the null terminator and cause undefined behavior.  In general, the correct (well, there really is no correct way to use scanf, but that's a different discussion) way to use "%
always check the value returned by scanf.  If it does not return the number of conversion specifiers that you expect it to match, then it did not write any data to the corresponding arguments.Is the equality relation of pointers after round-trip conversion guaranteed to be transitive?This question is similar to "Are all pointers guaranteed to round-trip through void * correctly?" but slightly deeper.
A pointer to void may be converted to or from a pointer to any object type. A pointer to
any object  type  may  be  converted  to  a  pointer  to void and  back  again;  the  result  shall
The  following  type  designates  a  signed  integer  type  with  the
property  that  any valid pointer  to void can  be  converted  to
this  type,  then  converted  back  to  pointer  to void, and the
The  following  type  designates  an  unsigned  integer  type  with
the  property  that  any valid pointer  to void can  be  converted  to
this  type,  then  converted  back  to  pointer  to void, and the
Note there are no cases where b points to an object in the first column and to one past the last element of an array in the second column or vice-versa: Whichever of these two kinds of pointer it is, it must be the same kind in a == b and b == c.How to pass any Go variable into a C function that accepts a void *?I have the following function set in C:
Function like macro passed as an argument. Compiler error coming 
When I am passing a function like macro as an argument to another function having declared as a function pointer argument. I am not able to run the code getting compile time error.
The question if the resulting code compiles is a separate topic.
However it is possible to pass a function-like macro to another function-like macro.
I am messing around with communication over Ethernet. I want to program a server, that binds to a port and receives incoming massages. I want to use IPv6 and catch the UDP massage from an multi-cast. I am also on a windows machine and using winsock2.
The code below (boiled down to the basics) already works and functions in a way i want it to. I am able to receive the messages send by an other application. I can read out the UDP header and payload.
How to modify the code to not only get the UDP header but also the IP header and 2nd Layer?
I was thinking something like the PID of the prcssA could be passed to a function (similar to a program's executable name passed to exec as an argument) called in prcssB & then the memory of prcssA could be copied into that of prcssB and then memory of prcssA could be freed.
I'm just trying to create a double-pointer after splitting a string/char array, where there is space.
But it's giving me an error, during compilation: error: expression is not assignable. On like NULL and parn assignment. How can I resolve this? The ++ operator yields an rvalue which roughly means it can only appear on the right side of an assignment, i.e. you cannot assign to the result of that operator.
You have another problem however in how you use params.  First, since params has not been initialized, attempting to dereference it (which includes array indexing) will trigger undefined behavior and lead to a crash.  Second, you iterate through params multiple times without reseting it back to the beginning.
You can fix this by instead defining params as an array of pointers instead of a pointer to pointer, then using a temp pointer to iterate through its elements as you assign to them.
Why it becoming an error when we declare an integer pointer variable as integer variable? If a pointer "p" holds the address of a variable "a". if a=12 ( just taking an integer ) . If the address of "a" is 1024 (just an assumption for asking my doubt). That means the value in "p" is 1024. This 1024 is address but it is basically a number . Then why it doesn't work when we declare the integer pointer variable "p" as  integer variable "p". like:
A pointer to any object can be converted to void * and back to a pointer to the original object type and it will compare equal to the original pointer to the object (so it will still point to it).
A pointer to void can be converted to a intptr_t or a uintptr_t value (by a cast operator) and back again and it will compare equal to the original pointer.
The PRIdPTR macro defined by #include <inttypes.h> expands to a string literal containing a printf conversion specifier (possibly preceded by a length modifier) suitable for printing the value of a parameter of type intptr_t as a signed decimal number. It is being included in the printf format string by string literal concatenation.
The * operator when applied to an operand p basically means "read what's on address stored in p and interpret it as the type indicated by the pointer type p is declared as"
You're missing the last part. In your case, p is not a pointer, so the dereference operator does not make sense to use.To declare p as a pointer to int do it the following way:
The output is always all numbers. I don't understand why this code doesn't output only prime numbers. And are there any ways to improve this Algorithm? Thank you!Using c code defines in c++ (Static Code Warnings)maybe this was asked before, but could not find this specific problem.
My case is regarding using C defines in C++ code. Usually, this should be straight forward, but in my case there a bit problem with the static code analyzer..
The problem here is that, the static code analyzer sees DEG_TO_RAD defined back in the .h file, and throws a warning about old style casting, even though I cast it again in C++ with the new style casting.
The other problem is that I cannot edit the .h file (simple solution will be remove the casting there and problem solved).
Can some one point to some kind of alternative, how to deal with this problem.C function to return file name from file address [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.I am trying to write a function which would return the file name of a file, from its file address. It simply copies each character of the address, starting from the termination charater, uptil the first forward-slash '\\', to a char array variable named name. And then, it simply reverses the order of all the charater in the variable name. I wrote a function called file_name(), like this:
I have declared name as a static variable, after receiving a warning from the compiler, and looking it up on Google. I found that without declaring it with the static keyword(or through dynamic allocation), name is treated as a local variable, and being an array, gets 'deleted' after the return statement(I would like to know a proper explanation. I still kinda don't understand what that is. Only have a vague idea).
Now, for some reason, I get no output. I give the executable a parameter with a valid file address, but it gives no output. On top of that, it just stalls for a few seconds, and exits. What's going on? I don't think it's a problem with the algorithm. The function has no problem returning arrays, as it works well in a simpler case. Why is it not working?
I am working on Windows 10 with the GNU compiler collection.
I would be grateful to know if there is already a function in the standard library which returns file name from address. But nonetheless, would still want to know why my code isn't working. Here's one very obvious bug that can cause a crash:
If a function only works for some test cases, that's a very strong indication of the function not working well at all and just gave the correct results by (bad) luck in other cases. See What is undefined behavior and how does it work?Use Systick on samd21e15bI'am working with Systick for the first time with an samd21e15b, so my objective is to be able to count time between delay for example. So here is what I've try to do
So if my cpu runs at 8MHz I have one cpu cycle every 125ns is it right? But if I inspect temps variable I have a value of 311 after delay of 1s and I don't understand this valueSome issues:
On SAM parts you first have to configure the general clock settings and the various "GCLK" options, but assuming that's done and you've indeed got a clock running at 8MHz, then one tick is indeed 125ns.
Why is it wrong? Could you please explain what I did wrong and how I can better my understanding of this? You have mistake in your shift results. Let's break it up:
The mistake you made was you added zeros on the left, essentially performing an additional shift an changing the values. Raw Socket returning -1 with sendto functionIm using a raw socket to forge packets and send them out. But the sendto function returns a -1. Does anyone know why?
how two make xcode generate a warning when no default with enum switchblow code this is no warning in xCode. how to make xCode generate a warning.
I got a warning that the System / community doesn't like my questions.
The warning also ask's for proper pronounciation and punctuation, will try to improve, but pls. bear with me, I'm not a native speaker.
I shortly learned that 'FMA' is really useful as it enables calculations which without had been too erroneous for the needed precision.
Now i have a task in the same project requiring division and then addition with best possible precision. As i didn't find such i tried FMA with the inverse factor, but all negative / inverse powers of ten have implicit small deviations which i'd like to avoid ...
Doe's anyone have an idea?
I was expecting const qualifier error/warning at extern int i; and read-only memory modification error in *ptr = 99; in b.c, but instead the compilation went fine.
1st print statement printed good but the second one gave Segmentation fault.
Why didn't it crash in the compilation stage with the anticipated errors and why it gave segmentation fault instead?
Attempting to write to a const int through a pointer is undefined behavior per the standard.
What's probably happening in practice is that your variable is placed in the executable's .rodata region - which is marked read-only in memory - and when you attempt to write to it through the pointer it triggers a page fault that crashes the program.
Removing the const should fix this, if you need to write to the variable.Translation units are compiled separately. Therefore the compiler has no idea that i is const in some other file. It trusts the declaration which is
There is no const there. That is why you see no warning.
To make sure that the similar error are detected early, it's advised to put declarations of global variables to a header file and let both a.c and b.c include this header.
In such a case the compiler would generate a diagnostic while compiling a.c because the declaration and the definition would be incompatible.
While compiling a.c the compiler assumes that the object is constant and it is put into read-only memory. On Linux machines it will be put .rodata section that will be mapped to process' address space without PROT_WRITE flag.
When the memory is modified in b.c then segmentation fault exception (invalid access to memory) is raised and the program crashes.
Note that modifying a constant object triggers Undefined Behavior. The program could run for years and then suddenly start crashing."I was expecting const qualifier error/warning at extern int i; and read-only memory modification error in *ptr = 99; in b.c, but instead the compilation went fine."
a.b and b.c,  although each as stand-alone are syntactically correct, each  occupies its own compilation unit, with nothing tying their contents together.  Their is nothing to cause a compile conflict because the contents of one have zero visibility of the contents of the other.
occupy two completely autonomous places in memory,and although they share the same symbol, have no relationship whatsoever, except that at run-time they are participants within the same process. (if one is not optimized out.)
It is unclear whether your question derives from the need to deploy actual code, or just as a learning project. Either way, when it is desired to have a project global variable, a proper way to do it (some would say idiomatic way)  is to:
Now you have a single instance of globally visible variable that can be accessed from both a.c and b.c,  As such, the potential for conflict now exists and because both .c files can see and act on the single instance of i, the way it is declared and defined will be scrutinized differently during compilation, across all compilation units.  Inconsistencies will be seen and flagged.Get input from console without waiting/return avoiding obsolete conio.h with Visual Studio C++ on Windows 10 [closed]Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.I can nowhere find a simple (!), no tweaking, as much as possible standard C / C++ implementation in Windows Visual Studio of the old getkey() function that does not wait, but immediately responses with either the read character or a NILL/EOF code.
I can't understand stack memory addresses on buffer overflowI was reading this piece of C code which should avoid a buffer overflow by having swapped the variable declaration of auth_flag with the one of password_buffer.
In theory you can not overflow this but I discovered through gdb that password_buffer' address is higher than the auth_flag's one.
But if the stack grows towards lower addresses why I can not overflow? if it is higher addresses and goes towards lower addresses couldn't I overwrite what is down?
Please help and be kind it's my first questionI am getting segmentation fault while running my code of linked listQuestion: Write a program t create a singly linked list of n nodes and write a function to modify the linked list such that all numbers that are dicisible by 3 appear before all the numbers which are divisible by 5.
Which is the most secure IPC? I'm writing a C program in which I have a client and a server both on the same machine running on two processes. I don't know much about IPC and I was wondering which is the most secure way to let them communicate, both under Windows and Unix. What I would like to have is a "channel" in which only the two mentioned processes can read/write and no one else can, so that I can avoid encryption. Is it possible?
At first I tought about socket, but I immediately realized that it isn't secure. Then I discovered Unix Domain Socket and I'm oriented in that way but again I don't know much. I've read about ancillary data: is there a way to use them to control the access to the socket file and let only the two processes to use it?First some basics about security:
if the machine can do it, anyone logged as admin can too
any admin can setup hooks about anything and consult traces later
security in absolute is philosophia and not Information Technology. In real world, you first set up a threat model, including who the attackers can be and want (accident like loss of power is an attacker), and then search how to mitigate (or accept) the risks
you normally do not allow accesses or privileges to executables but to the account under which they run, the reason why admins cannot be restrained (not at all under Unix and Unix-like, and partly under Windows)
That being said, a common and rather portable IPC way is a mere pipe, provided one of the processes can start the other one.Is it possible to store a character in an array which is defined as an integer?How could the array defined as int store the string values? Just look at the code, arri[] is defined as an integer but storing string values? And also the array defined as a character is storing integer values. How is this possible?
How could the array defined as int store the string values?
There are no strings in the code snippets you provided.
the initializers that represent integer character constants having the type int are used to initialize elements of the array. These character constants are stored internally as their codes. For example in the ASCII character table the integer character constants internally have correspondingly values 49, 50, and 97.
When the conversion specifier %c is used the function printf tries to output them as (graphical) symbols.
Pay attention to that when the conversion specifier %d is used to output an object of the type char then there is performed the integer promotion that promotes the object of the type char to an expression of the type int.
the integer constants have values that fit into the range of values that can be stored in an object of the type char.
In the both cases there is no truncation or overflow.The first thing to make clear is that don't actual store a character like 'a' anywhere inside the computer. You actually store a number. For 'a' that number is decimal 97. The computer itself has no knowledge about this being an 'a'. The computer only sees it as a number. It's only when you send that number to a device expecting characters (e.g. a terminal, a printer, etc) that some device driver changes the number to display of the character 'a'.
See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII for a description of the mapping between charcters and numbers.
The C standard allows you to use characters just as-if they were numbers. The compiler automatically converts the character to the corresponding number. Therefore
As already mentioned the type char is just storing numbers - just like the type int. The difference is just the range of numbers that can be stored. Typically a char is 1 byte of memory and int is 4 bytes (but it's system dependant).
Here *arrc is the number 11 stored in 1 byte (typically). So how can it be printed using %d which expects an int ?
The answer is "Default argument promotions". For variadic functions (like printf) this means that integer types "smaller" than int shall be converted to int before the function call. Note that char is considered an integer type so this also applies for char.
So in your case the number 11 stored in char (1 byte) will automatically be converted to the number 11 stored in int (4 bytes). Consequently the printf function will receive an int and will be able to print is as such.In the statement
the double value is automatically converted to int (to 3) [implicit conversion]. There is nothing that prohibits the conversion, so the assigment ("of a double to an int") is ok.
The reason is that it is much easier for me to understand which parameter I am accessing without knowing its index in the array
When I receive this command, I must determine what parameter I need to modify based on the first 2 characters, then skip the 3rd character( because it is just ":" and I dont care about it) and the remaining characters will show the new value)
I wonder if there is any easier way to map the enum to a string
The above method seems to work fine but I do not believe that this is the most appropriate solution for this particular task.If you don't mind what the actual values of the enumeration constants are, you could define those values to be equivalent to the first two characters of the test string. You can then copy those first two characters into a variable of that enum type, which will then adopt the appropriate enumeration directly.
You can define the values using two-character integer literals (like 'BA'). On little-endian systems (such as Windows), the two characters would be in reverse order; for big-endian systems, they would be in direct order.
If your compiler doesn't support multicharacter literals (such support is optional, according to the C Standard, IIRC), you can specify equivalent values using hexadecimal constants and the characters' ASCII codes (assuming your platforms uses ASCII encoding), instead:
How can I search a part of a string and display it? I have this code here to search a string in a file and display it. How can I edit this piece of code to make it possible to search just a part of this string?
say, the file contains the author "dennis zill", if I search "zill" I want the code to display "dennis zill".
It will succeed only on a full match.
Rather that using strcmp use strstr (or its case-insensitive variant strcasestr() if it's available).
The haystack is the full authors name, needle the user's input.
Function returns NULL on failure so it's enough to check if non-NULL was returned.
I'm developing both the device and the host library and my main issue right now is to ensure compatibility with both 32 and 64 bits host applications.
The thing is that long int size won't be the same on the host (8 bytes) and on our device (4 bytes).
I was tempted to use uint32_t instead of unsigned long int. But the standard states the following :
It follows that many of the data and pointer types will vary somewhat from one environment to another (e.g., a CK_ULONG will sometimes be 32 bits, and sometimes perhaps 64 bits).  However, these details should not affect an application, assuming it is compiled with Cryptoki header files consistent with the Cryptoki library to which the application is linked.
The host will send requests to the embedded device, let's say the host sends a request ID of 0. How the embedded device will know if it's a 32 or a 64 bits value ?
So my question is the following : what's the best way to handle 64 bits data types in a 32 bits embedded device ? I was thinking about something like that on the host's library :
But it feels wrong...Presumably your embedded device performs a service. This service needs an interface.
You need to specify that interface. Each available command, value, action, etc. should be documented along with acceptable ranges for values and what happens in error conditions. Then you simply implement the specification on both sides.
Bit-depth or data types of either side is irrelevant. If data doesn't fit the interface requirements, then it must be converted before using the interface.There isn't really an issue here.
You'll communicate between the systems using some specified link, which I'm sure have already defined e.g. TCP/IP, RS232 etc.
Whatever the transport layer is you'll need to define a protocol to package the data that you transport between the two systems.
This protocol should handle the data sizes and also allow for any disparity between the packing of data for larger data types and endianness by the respective CPUs.
For example you may think that a 32 bit value is packaged as [byte1][byte2][byte3][byte4] in memory, but in actual fact it may be handled as [byte3][byte4][byte1][byte2] by one of the processors which means that you must actively pack your data into an agreed format as specified in your protocol rather than just copying data from memory.
If your 32bit system must support 64 bit values then you will need to write your own handler for it - even if that is unpacking 64 bit values to two 32 bit values e.g.
Your 64 bit system can carry on supporting 64 bits, although any values that you wish to parse before transporting to you 32 bit system should be converted according to you protocol.
If you're providing library code to perform your protocol handling then I would suggest that all library function calls return an error message value.
Be cautious about casting 64 bit values to 32 bit values as a positive signed 64 bit value can give a negative signed 32 bit value.
Don't rely on using structures and unions to switch between live and packed data.