specific number of integersMy requirement is to print x numbers of prime integer. So my code starts off by asking user to input a number, e.g. 7, I want it to produce 7 prime numbers.
I've now coded to a step where it produces all the prime numbers that are less than 50. But how do I code it in a way that I only want it to output, in this case, 7 prime numbers ?
I've searched up but I do not understand other people's code. I will appreciate if you can edit from my code and guide me through explanation. Thank you
How do I efficiently determine if a polygon is convex, non-convex or complex?From the man page for XFillPolygon:
If shape is Complex, the path may self-intersect.  Note that contiguous coincident points in the path are not treated as self-intersection.
If shape is Convex, for every pair of points inside the polygon, the line segment connecting them does not intersect the path. If known by the client, specifying Convex can improve performance. If you specify Convex for a path that is not convex, the graphics results are undefined.
If shape is Nonconvex, the path does not self-intersect, but the shape is not wholly convex. If known by the client, specifying Nonconvex instead of Complex may improve performance.  If you specify Nonconvex for a self-intersecting path, the graphics results are undefined.
I am having performance problems with fill XFillPolygon and, as the man page suggests, the first step I want to take is to specify the correct shape of the polygon. I am currently using Complex to be on the safe side.
Is there an efficient algorithm to determine if a polygon (defined by a series of coordinates) is convex, non-convex or complex?You can make things a lot easier than the Gift-Wrapping Algorithm... that's a good answer when you have a set of points w/o any particular boundary and need to find the convex hull. 
In contrast, consider the case where the polygon is not self-intersecting, and it consists of a set of points in a list where the consecutive points form the boundary. In this case it is much easier to figure out whether a polygon is convex or not (and you don't have to calculate any angles, either):
For each consecutive pair of edges of the polygon (each triplet of points), compute the z-component of the cross product of the vectors defined by the edges pointing towards the points in increasing order. Take the cross product of these vectors:
The polygon is convex if the z-components of the cross products are either all positive or all negative. Otherwise the polygon is nonconvex.
If there are N points, make sure you calculate N cross products, e.g. be sure to use the triplets (p[N-2],p[N-1],p[0]) and (p[N-1],p[0],p[1]).
If the polygon is self-intersecting, then it fails the technical definition of convexity even if its directed angles are all in the same direction, in which case the above approach would not produce the correct result.This question is now the first item in either Bing or Google when you search for "determine convex polygon." However, none of the answers are good enough.
The (now deleted) answer by @EugeneYokota works by checking whether an unordered set of points can be made into a convex polygon, but that's not what the OP asked for. He asked for a method to check whether a given polygon is convex or not. (A "polygon" in computer science is usually defined [as in the XFillPolygon documentation] as an ordered array of 2D points, with consecutive points joined with a side as well as the last point to the first.) Also, the gift wrapping algorithm in this case would have the time-complexity of O(n^2) for n points -  which is much larger than actually needed to solve this problem, while the question asks for an efficient algorithm.
The algorithm I present here has the time-complexity of O(n), correctly tests whether a polygon is convex or not, and passes all the tests I have thrown at it. The idea is to traverse the sides of the polygon, noting the direction of each side and the signed change of direction between consecutive sides. "Signed" here means left-ward is positive and right-ward is negative (or the reverse) and straight-ahead is zero. Those angles are normalized to be between minus-pi (exclusive) and pi (inclusive). Summing all these direction-change angles (a.k.a the deflection angles) together will result in plus-or-minus one turn (i.e. 360 degrees) for a convex polygon, while a star-like polygon (or a self-intersecting loop) will have a different sum ( n * 360 degrees, for n turns overall, for polygons where all the deflection angles are of the same sign). So we must check that the sum of the direction-change angles is plus-or-minus one turn. We also check that the direction-change angles are all positive or all negative and not reverses (pi radians), all points are actual 2D points, and that no consecutive vertices are identical. (That last point is debatable--you may want to allow repeated vertices but I prefer to prohibit them.) The combination of those checks catches all convex and non-convex polygons.
Here is code for Python 3 that implements the algorithm and includes some minor efficiencies. The code looks longer than it really is due to the the comment lines and the bookkeeping involved in avoiding repeated point accesses.
The algorithm is guaranteed to work as long as the vertices are ordered (either clockwise or counter-clockwise), and you don't have self-intersecting edges (i.e. it only works for simple polygons).Here's a test to check if a polygon is convex.
Consider each set of three points along the polygon--a vertex, the vertex before, the vertex after. If every angle is 180 degrees or less you have a convex polygon. When you figure out each angle, also keep a running total of (180 - angle).  For a convex polygon, this will total 360.
Note, also, that in most cases this calculation is something you can do once and save — most of the time you have a set of polygons to work with that don't go changing all the time.To test if a polygon is convex, every point of the polygon should be level with or behind each line.
The 2nd assert fails in the original answer. Should it?
For my use case, I would prefer it didn't.This method would work on simple polygons (no self intersecting edges) assuming that the vertices are ordered (either clockwise or counter)
The following python implementation checks whether the z component of all the cross products have the same sign
I noticed that the scope rules of the for loop are different for C and C++.
For example, the code below is legal in the C compiler, but not legal in the C++ compiler.
The above code is valid in C, but gives a redefinition error in C++.
My guess is that the C compiler treats the loop as if there is another scope inside the loop like below.
Why does the C compiler allow a second variable with the same name to be defined in the scope of the loop? Is there any particular reason or advantage for doing this?As far as standards go, for loop scopes are indeed defined differently in C and in C++. In C they are defined as follows:
with no specific reference given to limitations on variable declarations inside the statement. The top-level description of loops ("iteration statements" in the standard) specifies:
An iteration statement is a block whose scope is a strict subset of the scope of its enclosing block. The loop body is also a block whose scope is a strict subset of the scope of the iteration statement.
where a new block is not declared (notice the missing { } surrounding the redeclaration) - is not valid code.
Whereas in C++, there is a specific reference to redeclaration of loop variables:
As it relates to rationale - likely C++ just added the restriction as an improvement to language semantics, indeed redeclaring a variable this way is usually a bug.
Arguably, this restriction is appropriate in C as well - but adding this restriction to the C standard would break backwards compatibility with existing code and is unlikely to happen.Drawing a bitmap directly to an X11 windowI'm working on a software renderer, and I need a way to draw the resulting bitmap to an X11 window. On Windows I'm drawing the bitmap directly to a window using StretchDIBits. Is there any similar way to do it using XLib?
I'm aware of this answer, but I'm wondering how to go about updating the pixmap every frame? Deleting it and creating a new one each frame seems like it would be slow.If you are considering updating in realtime a bitmap, then you should operate in the server, and make the server do the modifications for  you.  Or just request a pixmap extension (in the form of some shared memory segment between server and client) and limit yourself to run client and server on the same machine (in a way that they both, share the frame buffer memory).  X11 is basically a network protocol, so anything you have to update on your pixmap (a pixmap is an object that resides in the server side) has to go over a network connection and so, is subject to network delivery delays.Pyramid patterns using CI need to do the following pattern using do-while, while or for.
I tried the following code but it prints the pattern only 1-5 I also tried to alter the n being 10 but then the spacing goes nuts.
How to make change on a combined files in c language?I just made three source files in c and combined them using this command :
and it did combined them, but when I type ./combine -to run the excutable file- nothing happens!
another question: how to make changes on the combined files and save them ?!
in addition to a fourth file entitled "us-names.txt" that contains names. Why is the change not assigned a new value through the pointer Why isn't variable b assigned the value 10?
While we may assign a plain int to a float and vice versa, and then get an implicit conversion, this does not apply to pointers.
You lie to the compiler and say that the thing stored at address &b is an int. Which is it not. This is undefined behavior - the two different types could have different sizes - but it's also a "strict aliasing violation" What is the strict aliasing rule?
Since your code contains undefined behavior, anything can happen. What is undefined behavior and how does it work? One of many possible behaviours is that the system tries to re-interpret the binary representation as a float number where the 0xA ends up so far down in the fraction part that it gets rounded to zero. The program may as well crash or display any random garbage.In *a = 10;, the memory of b, which was declared to be a float, is accessed using *a, for which the type is int. This violates the rule in C 2018 6.5 7:
It goes on to list some other allowed cases, but changing a float object through an int type is not among them. Because this rule is violated, the C standard does not define the behavior of the program. (C 2018 4 2: “If a "shall" or "shall not" requirement that appears outside of a constraint or runtime-constraint is violated, the behavior is undefined.”)
The compiler knows the value 5.1 (approximately, after conversion to float) was stored in b. So it ignores any change attempted through *a and uses 5.1 for b in the printf statement.
The compiler stores in the int value 10 in the memory used for b. Later, when it gets b, the bits for the int 10 are reinterpreted as a float. The float type encodes values differently than the int type, so the bits 000…0001010 represent a very small number in the float type. Since the conversion %lf produces only six digits after the decimal point, the small number is display as “0.000000”.Macro and Preprocessor in C [duplicate]This question already has answers here:The above mentioned code gives the output that follows it. I understand that after pre-processing phase of compilation, printf statement will become. printf("%s Geeks Quiz ", "%s Geeks Quiz ").
But I"m still having a hard time to know how it was further reduced to the obtained output. Is the first statement imposed in the second or is it the other way around
I would like some help from anyone who has the idea.
I'm still an amateur, so it would be easy for me to understand a simple or detailed answer, but I would appreciate any replies.The preprocessor substitutes textually the following:
The first argument contains a "%s", which says put the next string argument here, so the final string becomes
After the first substitution of %s, made by printf() at runtime, no more %s specifiers are present, so the final result is what you see (and it is correct).
What is the real value of this variable, that I later use in my Simulink simulation? Is it really truncated/rounded to 0.0010444?
Everything else you see is an artifact of how the numbers are printed back out, possibly rounded and/or truncated.
This also demonstrates why you can never exactly represent your original value 0.001044397222448 in binary.  If you're using double, you can have 0.00104439722244799998, or you can have 0.0010443972224480002, but you can't have anything in between.  (You'd get a little less close with float, and you could get considerably closer with long double, but you'll never get your exact value.)
In C, and whether you're using float or double, you can ask for as little or as much precision as you want when printing things with %f, and under a high-quality implementation you'll always get properly-rounded results.  (Of course the results you get will always be the result of rounding the actual, internal value, not necessarily the decimal value you started with.) For example, if I run this code:
I'd be willing to bet that Matlab keeps the same internal precision for ordinary floats and doubles.MATLAB uses IEEE-754 binary64 for its double-precision type and binary32 for single-precision. When 0.001044397222448 is rounded to the nearest value representable in binary64, the result is 4816432068447840•2−62 = 0.001044397222447999984407118745366460643708705902099609375.
When that is rounded to the nearest value representable in binary32, the result is 8971304•2−33 = 0.001044397242367267608642578125.
Various software (C, Matlab, others) displays floating-point numbers in diverse ways, with more or fewer digits. The above values are the exact numbers represented by the floating-point data, per the IEEE 754 specification, and they are the values the data has when used in arithmetic operations.All single precisions should be the same
So here is the thing. According to documentation, both matlab and C comply with the IEEE 754 standard. Which means that there should not be any difference between what is actually stored in memory.
You could compute the binary representation by hand but according to this(thanks @Danijel) handy website, the representation of 0.001044397222448 should be 0x3a88e428.
The question is how precise is your representation? It is a bit tricky with floating point but the short answer is your number is accurate up to the 9th decimal and has decimal represented up to the 33rd decimal. If you want the long answer see the tow paragraphs at the end of this post.
The fact that you are not seeing the same thing when you print does not mean that you don't have the same bits in memory (and you should have the exact same bytes in memory in C and MATLAB). The only reason you see a difference on your display is because the print functions truncate your number. If you print the 33 decimals in each language you should not have any difference.
Now in more details, the question was: how precise is this representation? Well the tricky thing with floating point is that the precision of the representation depends on what number you are representing. The representation is over 32 bits and is divide with 1 bit for the sign, 8 for the exponent and 23 for the fraction.
The number can be computed as sign * 2^(exponent-127) * 1.fraction. This basically means that the maximal error/precision (depending on how you want to call it) is basically 2^(exponent-127-23), the 23 is here to represent the 23 bytes of the fraction. (There are a few edge cases, I won't elaborate on it). In our case the exponent is 117, which means your precision is 2^(117-127-23) = 1.16415321826934814453125e-10. That means that your single precision float should represent your number accurately up to the 9th decimal, after that it is up to luck.
I know this is a rather short explanation. For more details, this post explains the floating point imprecision more precisely and this website gives you some useful info and allows you to play visually with the representation.Visual Studio Code C/Cpp debugging using *.pdb fileI'm working with C code using Visual Studio Code. My idea is to debug the program using this IDE, so I've added makefile flags to create *.pdb file containing symbols just after the *.exe binary file.
In the .vscode/launch.json I've pointed out the location of *.pdb file compiled by clang but still the symbols seems to be not loaded when trying to launch the configuration.
This is from a school assignment and I couldn't find other cases where switch() showed an error because the expression wasnt a pointer.
In my understanding, what switch() does is that it takes the expression within the brackets and compares it to the cases listed within switch() and executes the ones that match.
Yes and it must be an integer expression.
Why would this require the expression inputted to be a pointer or array?
It doesn't. The compiler is just saying that this code doesn't make any sense:
Obviously, the second macro is wrong because it's not allowed to concatenate symbolic constant, in this case CLASS_PATH, with const char* by using ## operator.
I want program to be simple such like
How to correctly define CLASSMATE_PATH?You cannot define CLASSMATE_PATH as a macro, because the classmate's name (obtained via get_classmate_name()) is only known at run-time, and not at compile-time.
Macros are evaluated before the C code compilation starts. The preprocessor does not know anything about C language.
You need to use functions instead of macros to achieve what you want.CLOCK_REALTIME and CLOCK_MONOTONIC with a single callI use clock_gettime(CLOCK_MONOTONIC, &tsp1) and clock_gettime(CLOCK_REALTIME, &tsp2), one after another. Can I do it with a single call to reduce the difference?There's no standard, portable way to do this - clock_gettime is based on operating system functionality that doesn't support this sort of "multi-query". Extending this functionality is non-trivial - and might require developing a driver that will expose this functionality for you.
Specifically on Linux, this might be relatively easy and does not require writing a driver.
On Linux, clock_gettime doesn't actually call into the kernel - it makes use of vdso which allows the kernel to expose information to user-space without having to switch to kernel mode. The classic example of this usage is functions like gettimeofday and clock_gettime - these aren't privileged functions (with the exception of CLOCK_REALTIME, which does require some privileges) and the information can be made available to userspace for efficiency purposes.
You can leverage vdso to access the data directly yourself - have a look at functions in /lib/vdso/gettimeofday.c - which access the tables exposed to vdso to fetch the current time. I linked specifically to do_hres which seems to be the function that accesses the timestamps directly.
I am trying to use PrintWindow function in very old Borland C of 1997 (that is the only development environment I have and know). I've downloaded User32.dll file that contains that function but I also need User32.lib to link the dll to my project. Can somebody send this file to me, I could not find it on the Web.Linked list not accepting new nodes when called in a loopThe problem with the code is that I cant assign new nodes without affecting previously assigned nodes while using switch. It keeps reassigning with the latest given node inputs
linked list structure node the structure for linked list is assigned as follows
main when am compiling I cant assign linked list in run time ,that is when I have to assign the more than one node  while in switch .How can I remove this mistake?
when I'am calling the switch's first case to enter "new message " twice, then the first message already assigned is also replaced by the second one and is displayed twice as giya giya> when I'am calling the switch's first case to enter "new message " twice, then the first message already assigned is also replaced by the second one and is displayed twice as giya giya
The reason is that all your newly created nodes s member pointer is pointing to same buffer message_arr. That's why, when displaying them, all of them print the current content of message_arr buffer, which is the last value you have entered.
To solve this problem, after creating new node, you should allocate memory to s pointer member of Node structure and copy the content of message_arr buffer to the allocated memory. Alternatively, you can use strdup() to resolve this issue:
The strdup() function returns a pointer to a new string which is a duplicate of the string passed to it. strdup() allocates memory for the new string and returns its pointer. Make sure to free it using free() once you are done with it. Note that strdup() is not part of the C Standard.
Since, you have added both the C and C++ tag to your question, an important point for this way of initialisation:
Empty initialisers is as per C++ standard but are non-conforming in C, though some C compilers accept it.
Follow good programming practice, make sure to check return value of malloc(), scanf() etc. Also, make sure to check whether the user input for choice is valid or not. You should check, what happens when user give input as some character instead of number for choice prompt!"unresolved external symbol" bug while building C extension with setuptools for pythonWhen I tried to build C extension for Python with setuptools,I met a bug unresolved external symbol,the symbols are functions defined in C source file.My envrionment is Python 3.7 / Windows 10.
The result is that you are erroneously executing code that assumes that it is accessing data that was read successfully, when in fact this never happened.
I'd like to provide an abstract, high-level perspective. So continue reading if you're interested in what while(!feof) actually does.
The environment is not part of your program, and not under your control. The environment truly exists "concurrently" with your program. As with all things concurrent, questions about the "current state" don't make sense: There is no concept of "simultaneity" across concurrent events. Many properties of state simply don't exist concurrently.
Let me make this more precise: Suppose you want to ask, "do you have more data". You could ask this of a concurrent container, or of your I/O system. But the answer is generally unactionable, and thus meaningless. So what if the container says "yes" – by the time you try reading, it may no longer have data. Similarly, if the answer is "no", by the time you try reading, data may have arrived. The conclusion is that there simply is no property like "I have data", since you cannot act meaningfully in response to any possible answer. (The situation is slightly better with buffered input, where you might conceivably get a "yes, I have data" that constitutes some kind of guarantee, but you would still have to be able to deal with the opposite case. And with output the situation is certainly just as bad as I described: you never know if that disk or that network buffer is full.)
So we conclude that it is impossible, and in fact unreasonable, to ask an I/O system whether it will be able to perform an I/O operation. The only possible way we can interact with it (just as with a concurrent container) is to attempt the operation and check whether it succeeded or failed. At that moment where you interact with the environment, then and only then can you know whether the interaction was actually possible, and at that point you must commit to performing the interaction. (This is a "synchronisation point", if you will.)
Now we get to EOF. EOF is the response you get from an attempted I/O operation. It means that you were trying to read or write something, but when doing so you failed to read or write any data, and instead the end of the input or output was encountered. This is true for essentially all the I/O APIs, whether it be the C standard library, C++ iostreams, or other libraries. As long as the I/O operations succeed, you simply cannot know whether further, future operations will succeed. You must always first try the operation and then respond to success or failure.
In each of the examples, note carefully that we first attempt the I/O operation and then consume the result if it is valid. Note further that we always must use the result of the I/O operation, though the result takes different shapes and forms in each example.
The result we must use is n, the number of elements that were read (which may be as little as zero).
The result we must use is the return value of scanf, the number of elements converted.
The result we must use is std::cin itself, which can be evaluated in a boolean context and tells us whether the stream is still in the good() state.
The result we use here is k, the number of bytes written. The point here is that we can only know how many bytes were written after the write operation.
The result we must use is nbytes, the number of bytes up to and including the newline (or EOF if the file did not end with a newline).
Note that the function explicitly returns -1 (and not EOF!) when an error occurs or it reaches EOF.
You may notice that we very rarely spell out the actual word "EOF". We usually detect the error condition in some other way that is more immediately interesting to us (e.g. failure to perform as much I/O as we had desired). In every example there is some API feature that could tell us explicitly that the EOF state has been encountered, but this is in fact not a terribly useful piece of information. It is much more of a detail than we often care about. What matters is whether the I/O succeeded, more-so than how it failed.
A final example that actually queries the EOF state: Suppose you have a string and want to test that it represents an integer in its entirety, with no extra bits at the end except whitespace. Using C++ iostreams, it goes like this:
We use two results here. The first is iss, the stream object itself, to check that the formatted extraction to value succeeded. But then, after also consuming whitespace, we perform another I/O/ operation, iss.get(), and expect it to fail as EOF, which is the case if the entire string has already been consumed by the formatted extraction.
In the C standard library you can achieve something similar with the strto*l functions by checking that the end pointer has reached the end of the input string.It's wrong because (in the absence of a read error) it enters the loop one more time than the author expects.  If there is a read error, the loop never terminates.
In this case, feof() is called before any data has been read, so it returns false.  The loop is entered, fgetc() is called (and returns EOF), and count is incremented.  Then feof() is called and returns true, causing the loop to abort.
This happens in all such cases.  feof() does not return true until after a read on the stream encounters the end of file.  The purpose of feof() is NOT to check if the next read will reach the end of file.  The purpose of feof() is to determine the status of a previous read function
and distinguish between an error condition and the end of the data stream.  If fread() returns 0, you must use feof/ferror to decide whether an error occurred or if all of the data was consumed.  Similarly if fgetc returns EOF.  feof() is only useful after fread has returned zero or fgetc has returned EOF.  Before that happens, feof() will always return 0.
It is always necessary to check the return value of a read (either an fread(), or an fscanf(), or an fgetc()) before calling feof().
Even worse, consider the case where a read error occurs.  In that case, fgetc() returns EOF, feof() returns false, and the loop never terminates.  In all cases where while(!feof(p)) is used, there must be at least a check inside the loop for ferror(), or at the very least the while condition should be replaced with while(!feof(p) && !ferror(p)) or there is a very real possibility of an infinite loop, probably spewing all sorts of garbage as invalid data is being processed.
So, in summary, although I cannot state with certainty that there is never a situation in which it may be semantically correct to write "while(!feof(f))" (although there must be another check inside the loop with a break to avoid a infinite loop on a read error), it is the case that it is almost certainly always wrong.  And even if a case ever arose where it would be correct, it is so idiomatically wrong that it would not be the right way to write the code.  Anyone seeing that code should immediately hesitate and say, "that's a bug".  And possibly slap the author (unless the author is your boss in which case discretion is advised.)No it's not always wrong. If your loop condition is "while we haven't tried to read past end of file" then you use while (!feof(f)). This is however not a common loop condition - usually you want to test for something else (such as "can I read more"). while (!feof(f)) isn't wrong, it's just used wrong.feof() indicates if one has tried to read past the end of file. That means it has little predictive effect: if it is true, you are sure that the next input operation will fail (you aren't sure the previous one failed BTW), but if it is false, you aren't sure the next input operation will succeed.  More over, input operations may fail for other reasons than the end of file (a format error for formatted input, a pure IO failure -- disk failure, network timeout -- for all input kinds), so even if you could be predictive about the end of file (and anybody who has tried to implement Ada one, which is predictive, will tell you it can complex if you need to skip spaces, and that it has undesirable effects on interactive devices -- sometimes forcing the input of the next line before starting the handling of the previous one), you would have to be able to handle a failure.
So the correct idiom in C is to loop with the IO operation success as loop condition, and then test the cause of the failure.  For instance:
How to initialize and access array member allocated using this methodI have 2D array allocated dynamically using this method:
How do we allocate a 2-D array using One malloc statement
I understand that array[0] points to 1st 1D array (of 2D array) and array[1] points to 2nd 1D array, but now how to initialize (and access) others member of this 2D array, for instance a[0][1] can be access like?
It would great, if I may ask for some graphical view of it.The main problem is that you read a lot of harmful answers in that other post. You are making everything needlessly slow and complicated. Instead study Correctly allocating multi-dimensional arrays (which has the requested graphical view as "ASCII art").
You have changed variables that require your cache to be deleted. Configure will be re-run and you may have to reset some variables.
Currently, I have a temporary solution by making a separate folder for each building type and they work perfectly.
My question, since I am not an expert in build systems, is my solution the right way to do it?As @Tsyvarev says, you have to use different directories if you want different builds.  Here you are trying to build both in the same build directory.  Instead, create a subdirectory test to build the -DTARGET_GROUP=test, and a different subdirectory prod to build the -DTARGET_GROUP=production:
Of course you can call the directories whatever you like.Since you'd like this to integrate into VSCode, do the configuration change with the CMake build kits, which is what sets the compiler prior to calling CMake.  You can specify additional user kit definitions, and in the VSCode interface choose between compiler kits.
Rewrite the CMake files just enough to condition everything else on the selection of compiler.
THEN, the VSCode cmake-tools extension supports variable expansion for the name of the build directory.  Among the options are ${buildKit} and ${buildKitTargetArch}.  Make this suffix part of the Build Directory setting (your choice of whether to set this only in your workspace, or more globally on your system).
Now, when you switch kits, CMake will pick up the directory change and happily exist with two different build directories.
Alternatively, cmake-tools now provides variants, which could be used to add additional Production and Test to the normal Release, Debug, RelWithDebInfo, etc.  There are additional build directory expansion variables for information from the currently selected variant.How to swap two structures [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.I was trying to swap the content of two array positions where the array is an array of structures.
But this swapping is not taking place. I have done this similar swapping with static structure array and it was working but this swap is not. I am not generating any error it is compiling perfectly fine. Actually, I am trying to swap it based on descending order. But the output is always just the reverse of input. Can anyone please help?There is a bug in your code. Inside the double for loop, after if condition, there is ;, which means your if does not guard statements inside the {} block.
Why sizeof 1+1 is 5? [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.Which returns 5, the same goes to sizeof 1+1, which differs from sizeof(int)(4).
Shouldn't this sizeof operation evaluates to sizeof(int), which evaluates to a 4? Does this mean that during an addition, the int grows to a 5-byte long data structure?Just like multiplication/division have a higher precedence (evaluation priority) than addition/subtraction in an algebra expression, C/C++ has operator precedence as well.
sizeof is just another operator.  And its operator precedence is 2 levels above addition/subtraction operators.
Are there any (ideally well-known/optimized) C libraries that implement basic group theory? I'm familiar with GAP but from what I can tell it can't be used as a C library and included in other C projects.
I'm not sure what other tags are relevant here, please edit if I am missing some. I recently installed VS2019 on my PC with Windows 7.You need to install the corresponding windows sdk with the visual studio installer (see also this SO Answer). The sdk for windows 7 can be found here. Don't forget to set the platform toolset to use the windows 7 sdk in your project config. A guide can be found here.Mixed voltage reading from different AD7606 channelsPlease help! I am using FSMC to connect a STM32F407 MCU with AD7606 to sample voltage value. MCU would send sampled values to PC using USB HS port after 1024 conversions. But when I inspect the values from PC, I found that readings from channel 0 occasionally contains data from other channels. For example, if connect channel 0 to 5v, connect channel 8 to 3.3v, connect other channels to ground. Then the printed value from channel 0 would contain 5v, 0v, 3.3v. The basic setup is as follows:
A 200KHZ PWM single is generated by TIM10 to act as CONVST signal for AD7606. 7606 will then issue a BUSY signal which I used as an external interrupt source.
It seems that a single USB transaction would take longer than 5us(one conversion time), so I stopped PWM signal to stop conversion...
If I only send the second half of the data buffer, there is no data mixture. It's very  strange.Can we use printf function in a another user defined function which returns integer datatype?I creating a code for STACK and I found weather printf() function can be used in a function which can return integer datatype, My function's code is given below,
If my stack is empty it is printing that printf function without any errors or warnings. But that function's return type is integer only so shouldn't it return a value only and should throw error that we can't use printf function?implement: Edit, Run, Change, Sort commands for directories in C [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.How do you split the files shown so that 5 files in the directory shows at a time?Undefined reference to when compiling kernel.ccan anyone help me solve this? It's just when I'm writing kernel code for my OS. When I'm writing stack for my kernel, here is the code: kernel.c
Can anyone help me solve this?Return multiple values from scanf() without requiring 2 or more inputs? C languageI'm currently in college in a C language class. I always like to make the assignments given to me to be programmed user-friendly and neatly. So, keep in mind I'm beginner level at this stuff.
I want to let the user know on line 14 of what they entered firstly while also giving them the sum of what they entered. How can I do this?
I know that line 9 makes no sense, but that's where I am having the issue. I have seen scanf("%d%d", &var, &var);, but that requires the user to have 2 inputs. I only want 1 input. In other words, if a user inputs a number, I want that only 1 input to go into both max and input.
For example, if you input to want to have the sum of 10, I want line 14 to show the input you entered as well as show the sum of 10.scanf() will only assign to as many variables as there are format operators in the format string. The extra variable you provide is ignored, it doesn't get a copy of the same input value.
Use an ordinary assignment to copy the entered value into the second variable.
I am writing a basic program in which I take a user's input as to how much money they have and I return how many toonies I can give for that amount. I also want to display the remainder which cannot be given from toonies. When I compile this on VSStudio I get errors saying the following:
Force clang to inline or use static call to `memmove()`The following question sure sounds like an XY problem, but trust me, it's not. It is related to the lengthy investigation performed in this question.
I have very good reason to believe that a solution to that question's issue (not for the minimal example there, but for my actual code) involves ensuring memmove() is not called through a shared library, but rather as a static call, straight from my code to memmove() without going through a PLT, or even better, if memmove()'s code is inlined inside my code.
However, I have failed to find a command-line switch or anything else to prevent memmove() being called dynamically (note the dynamic call is confirmed by disassembling the output, after a build using -O3.) Does such a switch exist? While I could grab some optimized memmove() code for my platform (such as this), I would rather avoid introducing some code which might be obsoleted for a future architecture, and I do not consider this good programming practice anyway.
I'm using clang with the version string Ubuntu clang version 12.0.0-3ubuntu1~21.04.1 on a Raspberry Pi 4. Output of uname -a is Linux rpi4 5.11.0-1017-raspi #18-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT Mon Aug 23 07:34:31 UTC 2021 aarch64 aarch64 aarch64 GNU/Linux.While I could grab some optimized memmove() code for my platform (such as this), I would rather avoid introducing some code which might be obsoleted for a future architecture
Your best bet is to write a straight-forward inline C or C++ implementation of memmove, and depend on the compiler to inline and optimize it.
Surprisingly doing this often beats hand-coded assembly implementations, because the compiler can often tell that the regions are non-overlapping, or that a whole multiple of 64-bit words is being used, and thus various parts of the generic memmove can be optimized out.
And doing this in C or C++ guarantees that it will continue to work on future architectures (so long as you can compile for them).How to skip scanning a line when piping in input?I am trying to pipe in input through stdin in the C programming language. I have a text file that I would like to read, however, the first line is just the header, so I need to somehow skip it and read the rest.
I would like to place each line in a node as part of a linked list and so far all I have are the structures. I am unsure of how I am supposed to read the file.
Alternatively, if you must read the file directly via the < operator, the easiest way is to call getline and throw out the output. You could also do something similar with fgets. You will have to modify the program directly to do that however.calloc for two dimensional array giving garbage value instead of zero part way down [closed]Closed. This question is not reproducible or was caused by typos. It is not currently accepting answers.i am having issues declaring this properly the end result is supposed to be a 2d array with ingredientcount rows and numstore columns. im starting with just the first column(1darray) and printing as i go to see whats happening say ingredients is 8 it initializes the the first 5 to 0 and last 3 to garbage values and I cant seem to add the for loop to add 3 columns in each row. any explanation of what im messing up and why would be greatly appreciated.Way to optimize search on cartesian plane using AVL treeGeometry problem using C language
I need to do a task of storing rectangles on a AVL tree (self-balancing tree), based on the x position on a cartesian plane to make some search functions later on (like, printing the name of the rectangles that are inside a given area)
My teacher recommended storing the minimum value (raw x) and the maximum value (x + width) on each node of both subtrees, in order to optimize searching on the region.
For example, in the image above, the red node (root) min value would be the x of the black rectangle, and the max value would be the x + width of the green rectangle.
This function will convert the first bitno numbers stored in bits into a string in bitstr. It will
do this by copying each number from its index in bits to the same index in bitstr and add the
value ‘0’. Finally, it will place the null terminator value ‘\0’ in the final position at the index
bitno in bitstr so that the string is null terminated and can be printed using printf and the
“%s” format specifier. You may assume that the pointer bits points to bitno bytes of
allocated memory and that bitstr points to bitno+1 bytes of allocated memory.segmentation fault (core dumped) while trying to allocate memory using (char**)malloc() I'm new to C and currently learning how to dynamically allocate memory. Currently, I'm trying to create a dynamically allocated character array, where the memory for each individual string is also dynamically allocated. Each string is retrieved from a line in a txt file (numIngredients = number of lines | MAX_ING = maximimum number of characters per line/ingredient).
the segmentation fault seems to happen right when I declare ingredients... what am i doing wrongYou're not allocating enough memory for an array of pointers:
Instead, you allocate space for numIngredients elements of size sizeof(char).  This causes you to overrun allocated memory triggering undefined behavior.
As it doesn't depend on the type of ingredients.POSIX read() call remains blocked forever regardless of what's set in VTIMEI need to configure the UART settings such that the read() call remains blocked until a certain time before it's unblocked again if it didn't receive any data within the timeout. So if the timeout is 5 seconds, it remains blocked till 5 seconds max if it doesn't receive any byte and then unblocks...
I tried using VMIN which should block the read() call until no character is read within the time allowed, after which the call to read() returns 0, but that doesn't seem to be the case for me: the read() call remains blocked forever and as soon as I enter stuff in a minicom serial session, read() unblocks and then goes back to getting blocked again.
I'm not sure if it's taking into account VTIME setting, or maybe I'm misconfiguring it.
Be sure you're applying the fixes I suggested in the comments above.
select may have the same issues as VMIN/VTIME. select operates at a level after the TTY layer [which is where VMIN/VTIME operate]. At a lower level is the USB driver. If the TTY layer isn't set up correctly, select may have the same issues as read (i.e. probably not the issue). Although, you might do: open(/dev/whatever,O_RDWR | O_NONBLOCK)
But, I suspect that the issue is at a more fundamental/lower level. I think the USB layer/level is part of the problem.
USB-to-RS232 cables are tricky. The cable may need active H/W flow control enabled to operate. So, just disabling H/W flow control via (e.g.) clearing CRTSCTS may not work too well.
Double check: Are you sure that you are getting all the way through the configuration/initialization of the device. Could the open be hanging? You could add debug printf statements throughout the code [easier than using gdb for this].
What is the specific manufacturer and device for the USB cable? What is the specific manufacturer/model of the end/UART device? Although the standard/generic USB serial driver (e.g. usbserial) should work, some vendors need a specific driver (e.g. FTDI has its own USB level driver). So, you may need to consult the manufacturer's website/datasheet for the specific devices in question.
Also, sometimes a USB cable shows up on two different /dev/tty* devices. You may have the wrong one. You may need ttyS* instead of ttyUSB* or the device can show up as (e.g.) ttyACM* !!! This can occur even if ttyS* or ttyUSB* are [also] present.
Did you [or the system] modprobe usbserial?
Specifically, the dmesg output should say which tty* the device is connected to.
Some resources (from a "all the words" websearch on linux /dev USB uart cable):
Is there some easy C code to intentionally corrupt the heap?
I've tried the following but does not crash or generate any exception?
I was hoping memset() would trigger WER and terminate the process at that code point. But, instead it was the HeapFree(). I'm not really sure how HeapSetInformation() works.Your problem is not how to corrupt the heap. You already know how to do that. Your problem is to get the OS to notice so you can verify that it works.
To do that, you need to corrupt the heap and call heap functions until it does. Clearly the easiest way is to allocate a buffer, fill it and well past, then free it. If somehow that doesn't work, try again subtracting 32 from the pointer you got from allocating first.generate a csr in c for embedded applicationI need to generate a Certificate Signing Request given that I already have my private key, I can generate PKI with my MCU using hardware acceleration crypto engine.
What I need to do is assemble a CSR from the private key (already in pem format) in my firmware.
I tried the wolfssl suite, but I can not compile it (e2 studio, eclipse based), also was looking at the Chilkat suite, again is distributed in lib packages and are anyway too much for what I need.
I also thought about compiling from OpenSSL source to understand the minimum includes/ functions I would need to generate the CSR, but seems like looking for a needle in the haystack.
Is there a minimum set of functions/includes that I can use to generate the CSR given that I already have the capability of producing keys?
All is for an embedded environment, so a minimum set of functions would be greatly appreciated. Basically, I'm trying to port the minimum set of functions to an embedded platform to just generate a CSR from a private key (key is Elyptic ECC 2048).How can I find the actual source code that runs when I invoke s->method->ssl_write in OpenSSL on my machine?OpenSSL has a method named SSL_write, described here: https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_write.html
That's where I get stuck, though - I can't seem to find a function named ssl_write anywhere that actually performs the writing.
I know OpenSSL has a lot of metaprogramming and indirection involved. Can you help me figure out where we jump in the code when ssl_write is invoked? If this involves assumptions about a particular TLS version or OS, let's assume Linux and TLS v1.2.Don't quote me on that, but... ;-)
ssl_write is member of ssl_method_st struct. ssl_local.h has three macros that create instances of that struct. Let's focus on IMPLEMENT_tls_meth_func (see ssl_local.h:2234). It uses ssl3_write for that member and this is not an argument of the macro. ssl3_write is actually a function (see s3_lib.c:4422):
The same applies to ssl_write_bytes, which seem to be doing the hard part, based on its length of 315 lines :-) (see rec_layer_s3.c:349).Shorthand or inline method of initializing members of nested SDL_Rect struct in C, via functionI'm trying to improve the readability and overall organization of my project(s) which use SDL2. I'm trying to understand what I'm doing wrong when it comes to initializing members of a nested struct when it comes to SDL_Rect.
However, this produces an "Expression Expected" error.
So, what I have been doing, which does work, but just creates a ton of clutter, is this:
Is it possible to achieve a shorthand version as shown, or is this just the way it needs to be?
I am learning c in school, and I encountered this weird situation.
I want to write a function that gets an array of floats of length n and outputs the average of the numbers.
is there any wrong point in my code? why is it different between these two?
I appreciate any feedback, thank you !You need to initialize the sum variable to zero when you declare it, like this:
which will always be the correct size regardless of number of elements.In most C compilers, an uninitialized variable's value is garbage. When you say
what it actually does it locate memory at some address. It does not do any kind of initializiation of the value of x, so x now contains some value that was there before (garbage).
It seems like repl.it is doing default initialization to 0; I don't recommend using this kind of compiler, because it prevents you from actually understanding how C works. Error building project with make command, use of undeclared identifier '__compar_fn_t'I'm trying to build RedisBloom and after running the make command I get the following error.
How do I run the results of this tutorial gluonfx:build command?A Gluon tutorial for building a JavaFX runnable on Linux was successfully followed.
All well and good. My intention is to get to another part of the documentation (building an Android app) but I thought it would be worthwhile to check that this file can be run. However, I am a Java programmer with little c experience and there is a compilation step required. Would it be possible to get an assist on what the required command is for the compilation?
This StackOverflow post has a reply that gives the compilation as being of the general form
The tutorial given by geeksforgeeks similarly only has examples with source code files with .c extensions.
I would normally not be asking this question as it seems to be close to asking others to write code for me, but perhaps it's excusable as in tagging this for Gluon, a support member will perhaps be willing to supplement the tutorial with the required step?Creating n number of child processes from one parent processI was trying to create n(say n=3) child processes from a single parent process but couldn't reach a solution. I have tried this code:
But unfortunately it is creating 7 child processes.You will have to put a check so that only parent could create child processes, here is the example to do it:
You need first to consider that all those forks return both in the parent and the child, so they all create three processes in a three level binary tree (leading to seven final processes)
I am using Code.Block IDE 20.03 (default hello-world template proj).You dont have enough space allocated in the string firstname. Strcat appends lastname to firstname string and returns a pointer to firstname string.
I've literally found nothing on this subject. So I am unable to provide any contributions towards this, sorry about that folks... However, any help, or expertise in this area would help massively!
Thanks, in advance.Statement in which already moves a value to register at compile timeWell, in the code example below, the variable i, will have an instruction to be allocated in the register even before linking, how does the compiler know that it will have registers available at runtime, even before loading the program into memory?
Why is my reflect function not working (CS50 filter lesss)I'm doing the CS50 week 4 filter the "less" version. It consist in reflecting the image horizontally. It works in most cases except for 2 of them, the 1 x 2 image and the 4 x 4 image.