Will EXECVP system call supports IO redirectionsWill EXECVP system call supports IO redirections
I have asked two doubts in comment please clarify it This is technically not an answer to your question, that has been answered in the comments. But an explanation to how you can do redirection with execvp
When starting a new program with execvp, it will inherit the current file descriptor. So if you setup file descriptor 1 (which is used for stdout)
to be redirected to "C.txt" before calling execvp, the new program will
But it doesn't work, the only way I can make it works, is to pass an array declare in one line.
What did I miss ? Can I make it work with a pointer synthax and without any complex function (memloc...) ?The correct version of your call is ft_strlowcase(str1). However, that still perpetrates undefined behavior because the string literal object created by str1 = "AbCdEfGhI" is being modified. String literals are part of the program image; modifying a string literal is de facto self-modifying code, whose behavior is not defined by ISO C.
This is not actually a big difference between dynamic languages and C here; ANSI Common Lisp is the same way with regard to modifying literal objects.
By the way, your C compiler should be warning you that the ft_strlowcase(&str1) call is ill-typed: it passes a char ** pointer to a function which expects char *.
Firstly, "AbCdEfGhI" is no longer a literal object here, but only initializer syntax. The object is the str1 array, and ""AbCdEfGhI" specifies its size and initial contents. This str1 array is not a string literal; it is mutable. It is well defined to do something like str[0]++.
Because str1 is an array, the expression &str1 produces a "pointer to array" value. But this pointer points to the same address as the first character of that array. So that is to say, because str is an array, str, &str[0] and &str are all the same pointer. The first two have the type char *, whereas &str has the type char (*)[10]: pointer to an array of 10 char.   The expression ft_strlowcase(&str1) still requires a diagnostic, which makes your program undefined: you are asking the compiler to convert one pointer type to an incompatible type without a cast. However, if the compiler simply emits the diagnostic and then supplies the conversion as if there were a cast, then you will get the apparently correct behavior.  You need ft_strlowcase(str1) (vastly preferred) or else ft_strlowcase((char *) &str1) (provide the cast, so no diagnostic is required). Programs that require a diagnostic have undefined behavior if they are translated and executed anyway!
Lastly, your ft_strlowcase function is verbose. More idiomatic C code looks like this, among other possibilities:
Believe it or not, is more readable to experienced C programmers, because it condenses together several well-understood, well-worn idioms into a concise clump.
For no reason at all, you've declined an obvious opportunity to define an initialized variable:
Initialization should always be preferred to assignment. They are different. Initialization means that an object is "born" into the world with a value; at no point in its program-visible existence does not not have a value. In C, we can define a local variable object without initializing it, which leaves it "indeterminately-valued". That habit creates the risk of using an indeterminately-valued object, which is undefined behavior.Binary clock_nanosleep "bypass"i'm currently in programming studies and do CTFs in my spare time to get a few extra skills.
this will effectively disable calls to clock_nanosleep by making them return immediately.
If you don't want to run your program under LD_PRELOAD, you can get creative with solutions - for instance, patch every opcode that calls clock_nanosleep with nops, which is automatable with Ghidra scripting.Output a string with a new character in each line, forming a right triangleTrying to output a string that has been assigned to an array, with different characters on each new line, eventually creating a right triangle. But I'm completely stuck. I believe some for loops should be involved to iterate over each character but I don't know how to increase the array index on each new line to output one character more than the line before.
This function will print the triangle. If the string have enough chars to print the whole last line it will print -.
I have written a program to simulate a "queue" data structure  here is the code:
And I can only assume this is from the array of 10 ints that were allocated using the Create() function. The main function gives an error from free(), so how can I free the array allocated as well as the actual struct the array is stored in?C strcat inserts garbage into stringMy method reads an input text of vectors with the following format:
The problem is that when it gets to the last vector at each line, it reads each char and concatenates it with extra garbage into str. Any ideas how to solve this?strcat expects a NUL-terminated string (array of char) as its second argument, but
Both are Undefined behaviours. To sort the first out declare c as int
I'm not sure why you're trying to add all those object files to the header file. That's why it's complaining about the format, the header file is not an archive you can add to, as per:
If you want them to go to an existing archive, it needs to be an archive. If you want to create a new one, don't try to use an existing header file. In other words, this seems the more sensible option (note the archive file name rather than a header file):
In code you can see, I m passing the hexadecimal parameter to some function as unsgined char. Now this parameter I have to write to the esp uart function int uart_write_bytes(uart_port_tuart_num, const char *src, size_t size) which takes the second parameter as const char* so i type casted the parameter. But its not working system gets crash when its try to write to the uart.
How should I type cast this value and so esp uart function work? source port number in the recvfrom socket function I'm wondering on what basis src_addr.sin_port while receiving socket data gets filled up in the last but one argument of recvfrom function, syntax of which is
And also what's the significance of it, does it help the receiver in any way? The IP and port that is populated after a successful call to recvfrom is the source IP and port of the received datagram.  This can be logged so the user knows where the datagram came from.
Also, if a datagram needs to be sent back to this endpoint, src_addr can be passed to sendto to specify the destination IP and port.Infinite loop. Massive arrayThe loop is not working properly. The loop is executed the number of times there are as many entries in the array. the purpose of the code is to write data to the array, and in a new loop - to rewrite them.
How to get number of items on producer(using librdkafka) send queueIn producer using librdkafka, is it possible to know the number of items produced but not sent yet. I have turned ack off, only interested in sending the message out from the producer. I wish to avoid producing more messages if there are certain number of messages on the send queue(ie the messages produced but not yet sent).Incrementing an unsigned char arrayI have a program that takes in an unsigned char ctr[24]. This is going to be used many times and I would like to have a new ctr for each operation. So I would need to either generate a random value each time, or I could initialize it to 0 and increment. I am after performance so generating a new value each time is probably going to be slow versus just incrementing. Is it possible to increment a unsigned char array?
The above function increments an unsigned char[24] in place. It first increments ctr[23] and if it has wrapped around to 0, increments ctr[22], and so forth until one of the digits has not wrapped around to 0, or all of the digits have wrapped around to 0.You are vanishingly unlikely to really need to....
I mean if you just took the first 8 bytes and treated them as an uint64_t that would run a long, long, time before wrapping around.
Seems to me that some pointer casty stuff and that is job done for any likely use case.
Note that you might need to use some bytes in the middle of your 24 to ensure your memory is aligned suitably for a 64 bit access, but that is a triviality.void *inc(void *buff, size_t size)
I have a program that takes in a unsigned char ctr[24]. This is going to be used many times and I would like to have a new ctr for each operation. So I would need to either generate a random value each time, or I could initialize it to 0 and increment. I am after performance so generating a new value each time is probably going to be slow versus just incrementing. Is it possible to increment a unsigned char array?
Use a simple unsigned long long.  It's more than big enough.
At 3 billion increment operations per second, it would take 97 years to roll over a 64-bit value.
unsigned long long is big enough.Something like this? untested
As far as I understand you just need a new pattern each time. Not necessarily a counter.
So would a union do?
But one solution is to assume that a default value is zero-byte initialized, and write code like:
Size of arrays will be argc-1 what is not a constant expression.
However, GCC support a handy typeof operator. Combined with compound it literal allows one to make:
Note that { 0 } is a universal initializer that works with all types.
Resulting object can be assigned to the desired slot in data. Multiply a generated array by value x and find the average this is my current code that I am working with:
What I am trying to do is multiply the generated EVEN[i] array by 0.02, then find the mean/average of that new array and inverse it. In formula terms it would be 1 /mean(EVEN[i]*=0.02). I am stuck on manipulating the EVEN[i] array with the operations mentioned.
Determining the number of rows in a 2D arrayThe question is quite pedestrian. For instance, I have declared a 2D character array called arr[5][5]. While I am aware of the number of rows prevalent in the array, I wish to conceive a function capable of determining the number of rows by itself, which in essence is equivalent to its length. How does one approach this problem?When you declare an array in C, you mention the dimensions. Generally those are the dimensions you need, but they might also be the maximum dimensions.
you declare a five by five array, in memory this becomes (you have no idea about the values X, they might be individually different):
Your program is filling in only a part of your array (let's say the first two by two array is filled with the value 5), so you get:
And now you would like to know which part of your array has been filled, but you have no idea of the values X.
One of the ways to handle this is to fill your array with default values, which cannot be used by your program (e.g. you know that your program will never use negative values, so as a default value you might use -1):
When your program fills your array, you get:
You might check your array by looking for the first row (and/or column) which contains the value '-1'.Compiler flags for checking Integer overflowIn below program how do we make compiler to issue warning/error in case if there is going to be a problem with arithmetic expressions.
If an arithmetic expression is resulting into a value which exceeds the max value of their type i would like the compiler to issue warning/error.
I have compiled below program using gcc (GCC) 4.8.5 20150623 (Red Hat 4.8.5-4) and the compilation command used is gcc int_promo_flags.c -Wall -Wextra
I was expecting a warning/error from line long long int y = x + INT_MAX;, but there was no error/warning reported.
By casting x as (long long) x we can make the the expression to yeild correct value.
But are there any compiler flags to issue warning if the arithmetic expression is going to overflow its argument type.
If you use the -ftrapv flag in gcc - you can force your program to abort on integer overflow.
For instance, removing your cast and compiling with -ftrapv, your program aborts:
I don't think mainstream compilers support compile-time warning for signed integer overflows, but you can check for them manually at runtime.Finding overflows using offline analysis is a complex algorithmic problem.
Likely Turing complete assuming infinite memory resources.
However, one can use a built-in sanitizers to find such overflows in runtime.
Just compile with -fsanitize=undefined option.
I've removed the cast because INT_MAX is not enough to overflow long long.
There is a variety of sanitizer and the usually produce very good reports about violations. Printing random numbers to list My task is to generate random numbers in range from 50 to 80, if generated number is even add it to list of even numbers, if it is odd add it to list of odd numbers. Program should run till both lists are filled with 10 numbers. Duplicates in list are not allowed. This code prints 20 different numbers and it is storing duplicates in list. So I think problem is with count_odd, count_even and checking for duplicates but I can’t find solution to that. Also I have to print all generated numbers and also both lists in the end. Numbers in linked list should be in descending  order
In the comments section, you stated that if one of the lists is already full (has 10 elements), then all additional numbers that belong in that list should be discarded instead. However, your program does not contain any code to check for this. Instead, your program will keep adding new elements to the list, even if it already has 10 elements.
Therefore, you should move these lines inside the else block. After performing these changes, your code should look like this:
The same changes should be performed on the code branch for the odd numbers.
The first element of the linked list is just a dummy node in which the number field is not initialized. You seem to be using this node for nothing else than holding the head pointer to the actual linked list.
You have a lot of code duplication. Instead of using the same code for handling both even and odd numbers, you have separate, but very similar code for handling each case.
In the code below, I have rewritten most of your code to show you can see how I would solve this problem. Don't be surprised if you find it hard to understand, as I am using pointers to pointers, which can be hard for beginners to understand. As you can see, I am not using any dummy nodes, and I am also using the same code for handling both even and odd numbers. Only in two places of my code do I have different code for handling even and odd numbers.
Server-Client adding/deleting users for all clientsI have a simulation project for my undergraduate about a stock exchange system. It's my first project, so I'm sorry if I miss anything obvious.
As you can imagine, the server and every client have a list/array/etc with every user. I want to pass every new user and delete the ones, who want to sign out from the system, to all the clients. Obviously, the user signs-in/ask to be deleted from a client and that request is then passed to the server. But what about after? I have found a trivial solution, but I don't really like it, because it takes much time, even with a small number of clients.
At this point, I'd like to note that I have to use one thread responsible for one client and that can't change. For example, I can't use select, avoiding using threads, but I'd like to hear such a solution for myself. Also I'd like to note that each user is represented by each one id, which is just a serial number and that, again, can't be changed. Finally, I haven't attended any DataBases course yet, because this course is included in the next semester.
As I mentioned above, in the solution I thought, a thread reads all the entries from the common user-list/array/etc and sends it to the client that is responsible. The client receives it and then checks if it contains that entry or not. If not, then it adds it. But that would require to check every entry. It is worth mentioning that the user with a specific id could, not only be added, but also be deleted from the list/array/etc. That means that the thread would read all the entries and not find anything. For example, if I have an array with ids 1,2,5,6,9,18, then the thread would start from id = 1 and then move up to 2,3,4 etc, with almost all numbers up to 18 not being included. And that's just for one thread-client.
Similarly, the deletion follows the same pattern, just this time, if the user is in the client's list/array/etc and not in the server's, then it's removed.
All possible answers all welcome, even the ones that don't necessarily follow strictly the terms I mentioned.copying string in c in a microcontrollerI have a string "Revision: BG96MAR02A07M1G" which is stored in char tempdata[512]
You need it for the character array because it points to the start of the buffer and it'll start reading the string from that position when passed to printf, but you don't need it for age because atoi converts the string to a normal int type and the %d format reads normal ints.There is no need to use int * in your case. Following code works perfectly
The compiler is telling you that there are some problems in how you're using pointers, which is good (because your code was potentially dangerous). Let's look at what (I think) you wanted to do.
This function takes a char*, a pointer to a character, which is the usual way of passing a string, and is fine. The second parameter is an int*, or pointer to int, which is a good way of passing a value that you need to change. It is not needed if you just wanted the value of the age.
I'm guessing that your function was intended to increase the age of the person by one (since it's their birthday). This assumption is consistent with you passing the value "by reference", meaning as a pointer. Here's how I'd do that.
The parameters are the same, although I removed some spaces to make it clearer to the reader that the type of name is char* and the type of age is int*.
The key change is how we increase the age with (*age)++;. Inside the parentheses we have *age which dereferences the pointer — meaning, it gets the integer that age is pointing to. This is, as we'll see later, the value stored as a local variable in the main function. After getting the value, we use the increment operator ++ to increase the age by one.
The other change to this code is that the parameter passed to printf again dereferences the pointer to get the value of the age variable, rather than its address (a number which isn't really useful to us in the context of birthdays).
The first difference here is that we declare age to be an integer, rather than a pointer to an integer. This is consistent with atoi()'s return type, which is an int. It's the actual value of the age.
The second difference is that we use the address-of operator & to get a pointer to the variable age. Passing the address of the variable is what allows the function happyBirthday() to change the value.Tried to do 3 dimensional matrix using mallocI want to collect a 3-dimensional matrix using malloc. There is also the matrix printing part but I did not include that.
Program seems to be skipping to the end after I finish input m,n,o, so I cannot enter any value of matrix. I have to use malloc because it was required for the task.
everything that is wrong. m is for row,n is for column, and o is for a number of mXn matrix.Use dynamic Variable-Length Array:
More one must passed an address of the scanf-ed object, not it's value. It should be:
I think all you did is messed up in the for loop while taking the inputs. As per the context, the 3D matrix, I debugged the code and came up with a version that makes sense.
I will go on and point out the mistakes you made one by one.
First, scanf takes the memory address of the variable not the dereferenced version of it.
So you are essentially operating on a garbage value. As my mind was already baffled by deciphering the c pointer hell, I couldn't even process the end result. Code that would make more sense is this for(k=0;k<n;k++).
After that, you switched the control logic of the nested for loops.
To understand the code I had to draw a messy diagram. I am attaching that. It may be of some help.
As you have already omitted some code I hope you have not forgotten to use free to prevent memory leaks.This should work:
I've not compiled it, but it should be correct. Take a close look at how allocation has been made.
NOTE: of course, total correctness (e.g.: use of free() and avoidance of scanf()) has been avoided on purpose.
C compiler interpret { "steven" } as a 1D array of characters, because the braces are optional (standard chapter 6.7.9 paragraph 14).
As you tried, you can declare an array of pointers to a character by char *p[].
But if you want to have that pointer (to pointers to characters), you need to tell your compiler. The address of an array can be assigned to the pointer.
Additional note: Since string literals are unmutable, you better add a const for the characters. And since the address of these unnamed string literals are constant, too, you can provide another one.
A simple pointer to integer for example allocated with 8 cells, acts in the same way as an array has a dimension of 8 cells.
The only difference, that you can't see, is that a pointer that has 8 cells allocated is on a part of the memory that is called the HEAP, while a variable of type int tab[8] is allocated on the STACK.
Indeed, since the cells are linked in memory, it is easy to imagine that a pointer and an array whose first cell address is sent are the same thing.
To imagine, a double array type follows itself in memory, because it is the very principle of arrays.
While a double pointer has first 4 cells of type int * allocated (which follow each other in memory) and then each pointer of these 4 cells, each points to a memory area of 3 ints which follow each other. But the whole thing does not follow each other in the memory!
A way that may interest you
which can point to the first element of an array of size 3, i.e. the address of an array [4][3] for example.The initializer for a scalar object may not contain more than one item.
The initializer for a scalar shall be a single expression, optionally enclosed in braces. The initial value of the object is that of the expression (after conversion); the same type constraints and conversions as for simple assignment apply, taking the type of the scalar
to be the unqualified version of its declared type
Your project can define STRSAFE_LIB before including strsafe.h, and then link to strsafe.lib.  Note that strsafe.h will use a #pragma comment(lib, "strsafe.lib") statement if STRSAFE_LIB is defined, but I don't know if that pragma works in MinGW or not, so you may have to link to the .lib manually.How to get input from user with c/c++ (for operating system)I am writing an operating system with C++ to learn (INCLUDING C) I learned a few functions such as printing to the screen, but I could not learn to receive input from the user and print to the screen. I looked at many sources, but I could not find what I wanted.
What I want is to receive input from the user and print it on the screen and wait for a certain key to be pressed for an action. How can I do it?
I will be glad if you can provide sample code.
Skipping nested comments recursively in a scannerI'm writing a scanner for a compiler and have a function to skip comments whenever it sees them, I wanted to know how one would skip nested comments, i.e something like " hello "w" world", recursively, So far I have something like:
Nested comments using a counter for the depth The easiest method is to maintain a counter of the "comment depth":
When the counter is 0, you're reading code; when the counter is 1 or more, you're reading a comment.
Let me put some emphasis on the following advice:
Do not allow nested comments if the begin-comment and the end-comment symbols are identical.
Otherwise, there would be no way to distinguish between the two following situations:
Note that the symbol " is usually used for strings, not for comments. There is no such thing as a "nested string" (what would that mean??). However, there is such a thing as "escaped characters in a string". Indeed, what if you want a string to contain the character "? The usual approach is to reserve an escaping character; characters directly following the escaped character are not interpreted. So you could write the following string:
Satisfyingly, you can note that StackOverflow's automatic syntax-colouring correctly coloured all the string in green; whereas the previous string without the \ was not correctly coloured.In a Postgresql Foreign Data Wrapper, how to return custom row data in a TupleTableSlot?I am writing a Foreign Data Wrapper for Postgresql and trying to return dummy data but i am getting a memory access error when selecting from the foreign table.
I use a barebones FDW which returns three rows of data in IterateForeignScan(). I access the FDW with a small SQL script, where i create a foreign table with three columns and the appropriate data types and SELECT the whole table.
With debug output, i determined the line, which leads to the memory access error, but i have no idea why the error happens. Every help appreciated :).
The error message in the postgresql log just reads: "server process (PID 12310) was terminated by signal 11: Speicherzugriffsfehler" (memory access error)
My guess is that the problem is that the foreign table is defined to have a varchar column, but you try to store a cstring.
Try using CStringGetTextDatum instead of CStringGetDatum.Running a simple C program using VS codeI recently started taking a C course and I am having some difficulties running a simple I/O program:
the problem is that the program does start running, but it never stops and it doesn't allow me to type in the age and doesn't even print out the "Please enter your age: " sentence.
I have a gcc, g++ and a gdb installed and everything works fine if I remove the "scanf".
I would really appreciate some help!
Thank you!You need to add an & symbol before the variable name while scanning. Check why here.
I run this and it is working as expected. If you are using linux os, please follow below command to compile and run.
Please visit here to know more about scanf function in c.Are uninitialized local variables in C static by default?I recently learnt about the static variables, that they retain their values in between various function calls. Then I wrote some code to test it, then hopefully it worked perfect. But then I accidentally removed the static keyword at the beginning of the declaration of the local variable and there came the actual problem.
The output of both the programs are similar, besides the absence of the static keyword during the declaration.
This time the local variable shows it natural behaviour.
I just wanted to know if uninitialized local variables are static by default?No, they are not static by default. In principle, the initial value can be anything at all. Using the value could even be undefined behaviour. In practice, the compiler picks a memory location for the variable on the stack, and the variable's initial value is whatever happens to already be in that memory location.
Since you don't run any other code between the first up() and the second up(), in practice your program is likely to pick the same location twice and therefore it still has the previous value. If you called another function in between, that function's local variables would go in the same space previously used by up()'s local variables, which would overwrite the value from the first up().
You certainly can't rely on it. Even if you don't call any other functions in-between, the compiler might add one "secretly" (for various reasons). Or the compiler may decide to adjust the stack between the two calls to up so each call might get a different stack location for its local variables.
You also aren't guaranteed that the first value is 0. Because it's whatever happens to be at that memory location already, it could be something left over from a previous function. main isn't the first function that gets called; there is some function in the standard library which does set-up work before it calls main.Using non initialized automatic variable is dangerous.
It is Undefined Behavior if no address is taken.
Otherwise, like in your case the value of stvar would be indeterminate. It's value can be arbitrary, it may even change between accesses.
Always initialize local variables.
Note that variables with static storage (globals and static) are zero initialized if not initialized explicitly.How to adjust source code highlighting in GDB cli?I am using basic GDB CLI tool, no any TUI frontends. It highlights some parts of code with the same color as my terminal background making them indistinguishable. I know it is possible to disable source code highlighting but I would like to have it.
I didn't find much about this in documentation besides the fact that either GNU Source Highlight library, or Python Pygments package provide highlighting, but not a single word about how to check which of them GDB actually use or how to configure them and adjust colors.Edit esc.style in /usr/share/source-highlight/esc.style
GDB uses source-highlight which should not be confused with similar tool called just 'highlight' and provided by some distributions including Debian and Ubuntu. It is possilbe to check if GDB is actually linked with it: there should be --enable-source-highlight line in gdb --configuration output. It is documented in info source-highlight and is configured by .lang and .style files. esc means 'escape' and used for output in terminal, esc.style usage is hardcoded in GDB sources, it would be more correct to check terminfo and use esc256.style if appropriate, but it is written the way it is written.leetcode 56: heap-buffer-overflowHere is the code:
On my own machine, I test the code, using not only "valgrind ./a.out", but also "gcc -O -g -fsanitize=address test.c";  "./a.out" . There is no problem.
However, when I run the code online, the message tells me there is heap-buffer-overflow problem.
What's wrong with code， how to correct?The quickSort function is based on the wrong assumption that the intervals were stored in contiguous memory, i. e. the assumption intervals[i]+2 == intervals[i+1] is wrong. Therefore, the call
which passes only intervals[0] is inadequate; instead intervals has to be passed and the sorting function modified accordingly to process independently allocated intervals.How to solve the 32-byte-alignment issue for AVX load/store operations?I am having alignment issue while using ymm registers, with some snippets of code that seems fine to me. Here is a minimal working example:
Certainly, sizeof(float) is 4 on my architecture (Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-2650 v2 @ 2.60GHz) and I'm compiling with gcc using -O3 -march=native flags. Of course the error goes away with unaligned memory access i.e. specifying _mm256_storeu_ps. I also do not have this problem on xmm registers, i.e. 
Am I doing anything foolish? what is the work-around for this?Yes, you can use _mm256_loadu_ps / storeu for unaligned loads/stores (AVX: data alignment: store crash, storeu, load, loadu doesn't).  If the compiler doesn't do a bad job (cough GCC default tuning), AVX _mm256_loadu/storeu on data that happens to be aligned is just as fast as alignment-required load/store, so aligning data when convenient still gives you the best of both worlds for functions that normally run on aligned data but let hardware handle the rare cases where they don't.  (Instead of always running extra instructions to check stuff).
Alignment is especially important for 512-bit AVX-512 vectors, like 15 to 20% speed on SKX even over large arrays where you'd expect L3 / DRAM bandwidth to be the bottleneck, vs. a few percent with AVX2 CPUs.
The standard allocators normally only align to alignof(max_align_t), which is often 16B, e.g. long double in the x86-64 System V ABI.  But in some 32-bit ABIs it's only 8B, so it's not even sufficient for dynamic allocation of aligned __m128 vectors and you'll need to go beyond simply calling new or malloc.
C++17 provides aligned new for aligned dynamic allocation. If  alignof for a type is greater than the standard alignment, then aligned operator new/operator delete are used. So new __m256[N] just works in C++17 (if compiler supports this C++17 feature; check __cpp_aligned_new feature macro).  In practice, GCC / clang / MSVC support it, ICC 2021 doesn't.
Without that C++17 feature, even stuff like std::vector<__m256> will break, not just std::vector<int>, unless you get lucky and it happens to be aligned by 32.
The C version of aligned_alloc was added in ISO C11.  It's available in some but not all C++ compilers.  As noted on the cppreference page, the C11 version wasn't required to fail when size isn't a multiple of alignment (it's undefined behaviour), so many implementations provided the obvious desired behaviour as an "extension".  Discussion is underway to fix this, but for now I can't really recommend aligned_alloc as a portable way to allocate arbitrary-sized arrays. In practice some implementations work fine in the UB / required-to-fail cases so it can be a good non-portable option.
Also, commenters report it's unavailable in MSVC++.  See best cross-platform method to get aligned memory for a viable #ifdef for Windows.  But AFAIK there are no Windows aligned-allocation functions that produce pointers compatible with standard free.
posix_memalign: Part of POSIX 2001, not any ISO C or C++ standard.  Clunky prototype/interface compared to aligned_alloc.  I've seen gcc generate reloads of the pointer because it wasn't sure that stores into the buffer didn't modify the pointer.  (posix_memalign is passed the address of the pointer, defeating escape analysis.)  So if you use this, copy the pointer into another C++ variable that hasn't had its address passed outside the function.
Directly use system calls like mmap or VirtualAlloc.  Appropriate for large allocations, and the memory you get is by definition page-aligned (4k, and perhaps even 2M largepage).  Not compatible with free; you of course have to use munmap or VirtualFree which need the size as well as address.  (For large allocations you usually want to hand memory back to the OS when you're done, rather than manage a free-list; glibc malloc uses mmap/munmap directly for malloc/free of blocks over a certain size threshold.)
Major advantage: you don't have to deal with C++'s and C's braindead refusal provide grow/shrink facilities for aligned allocators.  If you want space for another 1MiB after your allocation, you can even use Linux's mremap(MREMAP_MAYMOVE) to let it pick a different place in virtual address space (if needed) for the same physical pages, without having to copy anything.  Or if it doesn't have to move, the TLB entries for the currently in use part stay valid.
And since you're using OS system calls anyway (and know you're working with whole pages), you can use madvise(MADV_HUGEPAGE) to hint that transparent hugepages are preferred, or that they're not, for this range of anonymous pages.  You can also use allocation hints with mmap e.g. for the OS to prefault the zero pages, or if mapping a file on hugetlbfs, to use 2M or 1G pages.  (If that kernel mechanism still works).
And with madvise(MADV_FREE), you can keep it mapped, but let the kernel reclaim the pages as memory pressure occurs, making it like lazilly allocated zero-backed pages if that happens.  So if you do reuse it soon, you may not suffer fresh page faults.  But if you don't, you're not hogging it, and when you do read it, it's like a freshly mmapped region.
In C++11 and later: use alignas(32) float avx_array[1234] as the first member of a struct/class member (or on a plain array directly) so static and automatic storage objects of that type will have 32B alignment. std::aligned_storage documentation has an example of this technique to explain what std::aligned_storage does.
This doesn't actually work until C++17 for dynamically-allocated storage (like a std::vector<my_class_with_aligned_member_array>), see Making std::vector allocate aligned memory.
Starting in C++17, the compiler will pick aligned new for types with alignment enforced by alignas on the whole type or its member, also std::allocator will pick aligned new for such type, so nothing to worry about when creating std::vector of such types.
And finally, the last option is so bad it's not even part of the list: allocate a larger buffer and do p+=31; p&=~31ULL with appropriate casting.  Too many drawbacks (hard to free, wastes memory) to be worth discussing, since aligned-allocation functions are available on every platform that support Intel _mm256_... intrinsics.  But there are even library functions that will help you do this, IIRC, if you insist.
The requirement to use _mm_free instead of free probably exists in part for the possibility of implementing _mm_malloc on top of a plain old malloc using this technique.  Or for an aligned allocator using an alternate free-list.There are the two intrinsics for memory management.
You create it via make_aligned<float[], 4>(20), which creates 20 floats 4-byte aligned, or make_aligned<float[20], 4>() (compile-time constant only in that syntax).  make_aligned<float[20],4> returns mm_ptr<float[],4> not mm_ptr<float[20],4>.
A mm_ptr<float[], 8> can move-construct a mm_ptr<float[],4> but not vice-versa, which I think is nice.
mm_ptr<float[]> can take any alignment, but guarantees none.
Overhead, like with a std::unique_ptr, is basically zero per pointer.  Code overhead can be minimized by aggressive inlineing. What is the precision of the gettimeofday function?I am reading the chapter single.dvi of OSTEP. In the homework part, it says:
One thing you’ll have to take into account is the precision and accuracy of your timer. A typical timer that you can use is gettimeofday();
read the man page for details. What you’ll see there is that gettimeofday()
returns the time in microseconds since 1970; however, this does not mean
that the timer is precise to the microsecond. Measure back-to-back calls
to gettimeofday() to learn something about how precise the timer re-
ally is; this will tell you how many iterations of your null system-call
test you’ll have to run in order to get a good measurement result. If
gettimeofday() is not precise enough for you, you might look into
I wrote some code to test the cost of calling gettimeofday() function as below:
However, the output will always be 0 microseconds. It seems like the precision of the gettimeofday() function is exactly one microsecond. What's wrong with my test code? Or have I misunderstood the author's meaning? Thanks for the help!The average microseconds passed between consecutive calls to gettimeofday is usually less than one - on my machine it is somewhere between 0.05 and 0.15.
Modern CPUs usually run at GHz speeds - i.e. billions of instructions per second, and so two consecutive instructions should take on the order of nanoseconds, not microseconds (obviously two calls to a function like gettimeofday is more complex than two simple opcodes, but it should still take on the order of tens of nanoseconds and not more).
As a bonus - on Linux systems the reason gettimeofday is so fast (you might imagine it to be a more complex function, calling into the kernel and incurring the overhead of a syscall) is thanks to a special feature called vdso which lets the kernel provide information to user space without going through the kernel at all.gettimeofday(2) as been declared obsolete in behalf of clock_gettime(2) that has better resolution than the older one (It uses nanosecond resolution)
Precission is another issue (different) in that it depends on how the hardware allows you to get a timestamp and how the operating system implements it.
In linux/intel based systems, there's good hardware normally available and it is very well implemented by linux, so normally you can get true nanosecond precision when dealing with timestamps.  But don't try to get this precision in a machine that has poor quartz oscillator and is not PPS sincronized.  You don't specify what kind of timestamps you need to acquire, but if you need to acquire absolute timestamps, to be compared with official time, don't expect them to be closer than some hundred milliseconds (on a basis of a NTP syncronized machine with a normal quartz oscillator)
Anyway, to get the average time of the calls you schedule, you have two problems:
You need to call MAX_TIMES + 1 times your gettimeofday(2) system call, as you are measuring the time in between both timestamps (so you compute the time between you call the system call and it is capable of taking the timestamp, and the time from the timestamp take to the return value is delivered to the calling routine ---but in reverse order)   The best way to do this is to take a timestamp t0 at the beginning, and MAX_TIMES timestamps in t1 at the end.  Only then you can determine the time between t0 to t1 and divide it between MAX_TIMES.  To do that, subtract the t0.tv_usec from t1.tv_usec, and if the result is less than zero, add 1000000 to it, and increment the difference in t1.tv_sec - t0.tv_sec.  The tv_sec will have the difference in secs, and tv_usec will have the excess microseconds to the second.
This assumes that the system call overhead doesn't change, and this is not true.  Sometimes the system call takes more time than others, and the value you are interested in is not the average of them, but the minimum value it can reach.  But you can conform with the average, based in that you are not going to get into under usec resolution.
I recommend you to use the clock_gettime(2) system call, anyway, as it has nanosecond resolution.Change the value of pointed to by a void pointerI'm not sure how I can store and modify an int using the following stucts in C. I don't think the values that I insert into a student struct are being stored. The student grade must stay void* and I need to be able to access/modify the grade at anytime until exiting.
I'm getting the following output,although the intended output of the last three lines should be 2, 4, 7.
That being said, be aware that having void *grade in struct student looks like very, very poor (if not worse) design to me. It should be int grade. You want to store a grade.
Also struct student should probably contain at least a student name or some student identifier.I compiled your program with gcc -g main.c -o main and ran it with valgrind ./main to find memory issues quickly. Try it!
Valgrind complains about conditional jumps depending on uninitialized values for the last 3 printf statements. That means the 3 grades aren't initialized.
Though it took some digging to find the problem. It's in:
The new_student->grade = &x; line is setting grade to be a pointer to the argument x, which will be completely invalid when the function returns! You really want *(int*)new_student->grade = x, which writes x to the newly-allocated memory location.Well this doesn't make much sense:
Memory is allocated and assigned to new_student->grade, then that is promptly overwritten by a pointer to a parameter. So you have now a memory leak (you can never again free the allocated memory) and undefined behaviour as that pointer to a local variable is no longer valid after the function returns.
What you want to do is allocate an integer, assign it a value, and then assign the pointer to it to new_student->grade.
Qualcomm Hexagon: Optimize MAC-loopI would like to DSP-optimize a simple multiply-accumulate for-loop for the QC Hexagon. From the manual, it's not perfectly clear to me how to do that, both for the vector version and the non-vector version.
Assume my loop has a length which is a multiple of 4 (e.g., 64), i.e., I want to unroll the loop with a factor of 4. How would I do that? I can use either C-intrinsics or asm-code, but I don't understand how to do the 4x-memory load in first place.
Any suggestions?Here is a FIR filter implementation that demonstrates how to use Q6_P_vrmpyhacc_PP, the multiply halfword/accumulate.  This instruction is described as 'big mac' in the PRM 😉
I used void to point to any object type if i need it later.
Why did I use the "void" wrong? Could someone explain my mistake? There are two problems in your code:
void has no size and you cannot dereference void pointers nor perform pointer arithmetic on them
BTW in the original memcpy, the first parameter is the destination pointer, so your MemCpy function is not quite the same as the original memcpy.You cannot perform pointer arithmetics over void*. You have to cast to appropriate type.Manipulation string pointer content in caesar cipherI'm trying to learn string pointers in C using a Caesar cipher, but I'm having trouble.
When I try to replace the buffer value with the cipher text, the buffer value in the calling module does not change.
I've tried using strcpy but it causes a segmentation fault. Is there another way that can be applied?You have multiple problems:
First you forget that strlen doesn't count the null-terminator that is needed for strings;
Second you use sizeof(temp_buffer) which is the size of the variable temp_buffer which is the same as sizeof(unsigned char *). It does not give the size of the memory you just allocated;
Then you forget that arguments are passed by value, meaning the value in the call is copied into the functions argument variable. Assigning to the argument variable only modifies the local argument variable. Either return the new string (which I recommend) or research emulating pass by reference in C.How to print a string in c language for like 10 seconds?while(1) {
We know this would keep on printing the Hello World string for infinite times. My goal is to print this for 10 seconds. I tried this:
It still goes for an infinite time. Please let me where did I made the mistake.I mainly just want to print for like 10 seconds
Then I suggest using the standard time() function.
Save the start time in one variable. Have another variable with the current time and keep printing until the difference is what you want.
This code will print the string, then issue a '\r' to return the cursor to the left of the terminal, then issue a "\033[K" to erase from the cursor to the end of the line, and a '\n' to end the program on a new line (you can avoid this, as the cursor is already in an empty line)
ncurses window functions not working as expectedI'm working on a personal experiment using s7 scheme and ncurses. I don't have a lot of experience with ncurses and I'm not able to with the tutorials I have figure out what's going wrong. When using newwin through a FFI interface, functions like wprintw or wborder don't work on the window I created, but the entire available terminal screen.
To start, the C example works as expected. A small window shows up and has some text in the top left corner.
I define functions to call from s7. It's a 1-to-1 mapping of these functions so the code should be identical. The program functions, but the window doesn't work as expected. The window size isn't correct, or it's not targetting the window pointer I give it.
Is there something about calling these functions that I'm overlooking? Looks like the (define w (nc_newwin 5 15 2 2)) is not passing the window-pointer as expected, or the other hooks are ignoring that.  Either way, they are using stdscr rather than the value returned by newwin.Was an error on my part. I was reading the scheme integer arguments incorrectly. The invalid values were being defaulted to the same size as stdscr.How can I call my array in one function to another function and display specific data from that array?#include <stdio.h>
So essentially I'm working on this assignment that is asking me to create a 2D array, have the user select stuff from a menu, put in 2 values for 2 team scores (one being "your" team and the other one being the opponents) I've created the array and now I'm looking to display this array when the user calls the 2nd switch case, and display numbers of wins, ties, etc etc.. the only problem is I have no idea how to call this array into one function from another, perhaps I'm doing this the in a wrong way, is there some easier way of going about this array?You'll want to define your array inside main so that it can be passed as an argument (alongside its dimensions) to each function.
And for compilers that don't support variable-length arrays, you must be more rigid in your approach. There are a few ways to do this, here is one example:
What is the problem when I used two or more gets to input something in structure on c programming? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.I had faced a problem with a structured program in c programming. When I input two or more string-type variables in the main function by gets, it didn't work. But at the same time, I used scanf it works very well. What is the problem with gets I didn't get it?
Do not use float for currency by the way. gets() is bad and banned, but in this case, as so often your use of scanf() causes your problem. http://sekrit.de/webdocs/c/beginners-guide-away-from-scanf.htmlProper use of readline in order to display historyI'm making a program that shoul act like a real terminal in linux (ubuntu).
What I want to do is: When I press the up key, it should show me what I typed before, and so on... If I press the up key 3 times, it should show me the 3rd latest command used, and so on for the bottom key.
I am not that good with C, but I understood that there is a library readline, and a history one, but I don't know how to use them in order to accomplish this.
Thanks in advanceConsider using the GNU readline library (mixing both editable readline feature and history feature). It has documentation for the Readline itself and for the history sub-library.
You'll use readline function to read the line, and add_history to add some "accepted" line into the history list. You might also want to customize the completer.
Spend a couple of hours to read the documentation, it is quite well explained with code samples.
(the readline library is GPL licensed, and is commonly available on Linux. E.g. on Debian install the libreadline6-dev  package; I don't know if readline works on Windows.)
You probably should not explicitly use (in your program) signal(7)-s with readline. If you do, dive into the documentation and the source code.
You might want to consider ncurses  library instead. It enables you to code full-screen terminal applications (like vim or emacs are).
Of course, readline  and ncurses want the input to be a pseudo-tty (so it cannot be a pipe or a file). Read the tty demystified page to understand more the gory details, and see termios(3)!
If you want a graphical user interface, dive into GTK or Qt. If you want a web interface, you'll need some HTTP server library like libonion or Wt (and a lot of knowledge about web related technologies: HTML5, CSS, Javascript, Jquery, AJAX, ... see w3schools - which is imperfect).Are empty macro definitions allowed in C? How do they behave?Suppose the "empty" macro definition
Is it valid Standard C? If so, what is FOO after this definition?It is simply a macro that expands to, well, nothing. However, now that the macro has been defined you can check with #if defined (or #ifdef) whether it has been defined.
There are certain situations where this comes in very handy, for example additional debug information, which you don't want to show in your release version:
It does not work, line 15 is some conditional test (it could be a while or an if, to give a couple of examples)
The conditional test is where it gives the Valgrind error
For context the numbers is an array that holds a number and I am trying to combine them so {1,3,4} should result in 134.In c(not c++), is there a way to check the identity of the definitions of two structures with different tags?In c(not c++), is there a way to check in compile time the identity of the definitions of two structures with different tags? Do they consist of the same set of fields in the same order?To my knowledge, it is not possible in C to iterate over struct members, which is what you'd probably have to do. Best you can do is check if two variables/types have the same size using sizeof or if two variables are of the same type.How to run exisitng project written in C [duplicate]This question already has answers here:The project  basically is the C implementation of Rtree data structure. Now I want to run the example script presentunder readme section. But everytime I compile and run the  example script I always get undefined reference error. This happens with other projects to. It would be of great help if you could let me know if i need to build or compile files present in the project before i compile example script ?When creating a filter ffmpeg filter I get ar: libavfilter/foobar.o: No such file or directoryI've followed the steps in FFmpeg/ffmpeg/docs/writing_filters.txt
Can someone help me understand this warning?The writer's of your libc have decided that the return value of scanf should not be ignored in most cases, so they have given it an attribute telling the compiler to give you a warning.
If the return value is truly not needed, then you are fine. However, it is usually best to check it to make sure you actually successfully read what you think you did.
In your case, the code could be written like this to avoid the warning (and some input errors):
The warning (rightly) indicates that it is a bad idea not to check the return value of scanf. The function scanf has been explicitly declared (via a gcc function attribute) to trigger this warning if you discard its return value.
If you really want to forget about this return value, while keeping the compiler (and your conscience) happy, you can cast the return value to void:
After reading all answers and comments on this page I don't see these yet another options to avoid the warning:
When compiling with gcc you can add to your command line:
But now, if you turn off assert via #define NDEBUG you will get a -Wunused-but-set-variable. You can then turn off this second warning by one of two ways:
As pointed out in other answer, the second option unfortunately is not very portable, although it seems the best option.
At last, the defined MACRO bellow can help you if you are sure you want to ignore the return of a given function, but you are not comfortable turning off the warnings for all unused returns of functions:
See also this answerOne way to solve this is the IGUR() function as seen below.  Extremely ugly, but nevertheless somewhat portable.  (For old compilers which do not understand inline just #define inline /*nothing*/, as usual.)
BTW this example, nonblockingly, copies from stdin to stdout until all waiting input was read, returning true (0) if nothing was there, else false (1).  (It prevents the 1s delay in something like while read -t1 away; do :; done in bash.)
Compiles without warning under -Wall (Debian Jessie).
IGUR() needs to be defined without inline, too, such that it becomes available for the linker.  Else with cc -O0 it might fail.  See: https://stackoverflow.com/a/16245669/490291
Newer gcc require inline to be before void.Actually it depends on what you need, if you just want to disable the warning of compiler, you can just ignore the return value of the function by the force conversion  or you can just handle it, the meaning of the scanf function is the count of user input.
to ignore the return value of scanfscanf, printf is functions that returns value, usually in those kind of functions it's the amount of characters read or written. if an error occurs, you can catch the error also with the return code.
A good programming practice will be to look at the return value, however, I never saw someone who looks at the printf return value...
If you want the warning to disappear, you can probably change the severity of the compiler.Can someone help me understand this warning?
No, but here is my contribution to the horror of warning suppression. To actively throw out the return value, elegance dictates wrapping our statement in a comprehensible lambda function, like this:
My apologies.Since functions without arguments are valid in C, you can do the following: