How to call C++ function from C?I know this.
If my application was in C++ and I had to call functions from a library written in C. Then I would have used 
This wouldn't mangle the name C_library_function and linker would find the same name in its input *.lib files and problem is solved.
Calling C++ function from C???
But here I'm extending a large application which is written in C and I need to use a library which is written in C++. Name mangling of C++ is causing trouble here. Linker is complaining about the unresolved symbols. Well I cannot use C++ compiler over my C project because thats breaking lot of other stuff. What is the way out?
By the way I'm using MSVCYou need to create a C API for exposing the functionality of your C++ code. Basically, you will need to write C++ code that is declared extern "C" and that has a pure C API (not using classes, for example) that wraps the C++ library. Then you use the pure C wrapper library that you've created.
Your C API can optionally follow an object-oriented style, even though C is not object-oriented. Ex:
(If working with MSVC, ignore the GCC compilation commands)
Suppose that I have a C++ class named AAA, defined in files aaa.h, aaa.cpp, and that the class AAA has a method named sayHi(const char *name), that I want to enable for C code.
Compiling this class as regularly done for C++. This code "does not know" that it is going to be used by C code. Using the command:
Now, also in C++, creating a C connector:
Defining it in files aaa_c_connector.h, aaa_c_connector.cpp. This connector is going to define a C function, named AAA_sayHi(cosnt char *name), that will use an instance of AAA and will call its method:
Now I have a shared library (libaaa_c_connector.so), that implements the C function AAA_sayHi(const char *name). I can now create a C main file and compile it all together:
I will need to set LD_LIBRARY_PATH to contain $PWD, and if I run the executable ./c_aaa, I will get the output I expect:
If you want to expose objects and other cute C++ stuff, you'll have to write a wrapper API.export your C++ functions as extern "C" (aka C style symbols), or use the .def file format to define undecorated export symbols for the C++ linker when it creates the C++ library, then the C linker should have no troubles reading it#include <iostream>
You can prefix the function declaration with extern “C” keyword, e.g.
For more examples you can search more on Google about “extern” keyword. You need to do few more things, but it's not difficult you'll get lots of examples from Google.Problem with pthread_cond_wait on multi-core processorsI'm writing a program which receive data from websocket and work with this data in thread pool.
I have problem with pthread_cond_wait when processor have 2 or more cores. After pthread_cond_signal signal is received by all threads which run on different cores. For example if I have 2 cores, then the signal will come to 2 threads at once, which are located on these two cores.  If I have single core processor all is good.
What I have to do to get the program to work correctly on multi-core processors? So that only one thread receives the signal to start work.
I wrote an example of my code with  generation random text data instead of websocket data.
Some implementations, particularly on a multi-processor, may sometimes cause multiple threads to wake up when the condition variable is signaled simultaneously on different processors.
man pthread_cond_signal
Multiple Awakenings by Condition Signal
On a multi-processor, it may be impossible for an implementation of pthread_cond_signal() to avoid the unblocking of more than one thread blocked on a condition variable.
The effect is that more than one thread can return from its call to pthread_cond_wait() or pthread_cond_timedwait() as a result of one call to pthread_cond_signal(). This effect is called "spurious wakeup". Note that the situation is self-correcting in that the number of threads that are so awakened is finite; for example, the next thread to call pthread_cond_wait() after the sequence of events above blocks.
So far, so good, the code in your workThread is proper synchronized (but you should put the printf in the synchronized section as well) but the code in your generalThread has no synchronization at all. Encapsulate the code in the while loop with a lock / unlock.
In that case, the first awakened thread has to aquire a lock on the specified mutex, which will be owned by either another thread or the generalThread. Until the mutex is unlocked, the thread blocks (no matter the reason of its wakeup). After the aquisition, it owns the mutex and all other threads will be blocked, the generalThread inclusive.
Note: a pthread_cond_wait implicitly unlocks the specified mutex upon entering the wait state and on a wakeup it tries to aquire a lock on the specified mutex.Adding a mutex lock to tc++ fully corrects my programs:
I am trying to write the lock pairs function in tideman pset3 cs50 I know it's not the most efficient but I don't understand why it is wrong [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.I start by locking the pair if after locking that pair no candidates have no arrows pointing towards them then I remove the lock that the idea behind the code I don't understand if the idea is wrong or I made something wrong in the code that's the full problem https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/2021/psets/3/tideman/
that's what the function supposed to do
"The function should create the locked graph, adding all edges in decreasing order of victory strength so long as the edge would not create a cycle"
I have the pairs sorted already in decreasing order of victory strength
(each pair has a winner pairs.winner and a loser pairs.loser where both are int's and the pair strengh is the diffrence between both)
when locked[1][2] it means that I added an edge between 1 and 2 pointing towards 2 I want to add edges between the winners and losers (from winners to losers) if it does not create a cycle between each 2 numbers until (candidate_count which is at max =9) there is a pair where there is a winner and a loser (pair_count
Should you free pointers that reference already allocated data?I'm aware that pointers that point to malloc-ed data need to be freed where appropriate.
Assume I've allocated memory for the Items struct and the Vector member contains, say, 3 items (of another struct Boxes).
If I were to have a Boxes pointer variable that references the second member of the Vector in the Items struct, would that need to be freed after usage?
I understand that that variable box1 wasn't explicitly heap-allocated. Do only heap-allocated pointers need to be freed?man malloc/free
The  malloc() function allocates size bytes and returns a pointer to the allocated memory. 
The free() function frees the memory space pointed to by ptr, which must have been returned by a previous call to malloc(), ...
That being said, the address returned by malloc has to be passed later to free, nothing in between.
Each malloc must be followed by a corresponding free.If you execute this:
Then box1 and items->fruits[1] are the same pointer; they refer to the same object, which has one address in memory.
If you call free(items->fruits[1]) then items->fruits[1] becomes an invalid pointer. Because box1 is exactly that same pointer, it also becomes invalid.
If you know that that the memory management for items->fruits[1] is taken care of elsewhere, and you just want a shorter name for it some block of code, it can be often safe to create an alias for the object like box1.
You have to be absolutely sure that you don't continue to use box1 at some point in the program where box1 is still in the lexical scope (so accessing the variable per se is hunky dory), but some code has been executed which has already destroyed items->fruits[1], to that box1 has invisibly, stealthily become invalid.
If you have some code that has a box1 alias, and it's possible that some function which it calls will destroy items->fruits[1] and replace that pointer with a new one. In that case you can pick up the new value:
This kind of thing is a source of bugs.
You know that computing proverb that "there are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things"? Well, this is cache invalidation: box1 is a cached copy of some pointer that has possibly gone invalid, and must be refreshed.Does C have modern cli tools for project management? [closed]Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.Modern programming platforms tend to provide CLI tools for project management. Like sbt in Scala or dotnet for… .NET, and so on.
I am not deeply familiar with C ecosystem. make or, to be more precise, cmake seems to be the most popular one and properly documented… yet it is far from simplicity modern tools offer.
Are there such tools at all, that help you to manage your project structure and dependencies, help to run your tests, do some simple scaffolding/code generation, build and rebuild as you go?Reading a string into integers, then printing the integers#include <stdio.h>
This is my code. I want to collect the input of the user in InputUserDate. I use sscanf to convert the string to three integers, and to store these in three variables. However, there is no output.
Arrays decay to a pointer-to-the-first-element when used as function arguments -- char input[32] becomes a char * when passed to scanf.
"%s" should never be used without specifying the maximum field width of the destination buffer - this should be one less than the size of your buffer, to allow room for the NUL terminating byte ('\0') that all valid strings in C require.
scanf and sscanf can both fail, or partially match the total number of conversions you specify. In either event, the argument's pointed to values can be indeterminate. You must check that the return value of the function matches the number of conversion specifiers you require to be successful, so that the rest of the program operates on valid data.
Strongly consider using fgets instead of scanf to read lines of input, as it allows for better control.Allocating 8MB physically contiguous memory in LinuxCan I allocate more than 4MB physically contiguous memory without enabling CONFIG_CMA kernel config parameter?
Currently, I am using dma_alloc_coherent call but it fails if we try to allocate a memory more than 4MB size.C pass by reference without ampersand [duplicate]This question already has answers here:However, as far I know, shouldn't the buffer variable be passed by reference (using &) to bzero and read functions? As well, the man pages for bzero and read specify that these arguments are pointers. Am I missing something?The variable buffer is declared as having an array type
Array designators used in expressions are implicitly converted (with rare exceptions) to pointers to their first elements.
The function bzero changes elements of the array buffer So in fact all elements of the array are passed to the function by reference through the pointer to the first element of the array due to the mentioned above implicit conversion
As a result, the function can access and change any element of the array using the passed pointer and the pointer arithmetic.C has no pass by reference. You cannot pass things by reference in C. You can only pass by value.
The value passed here is a pointer to the first object in buffer. That is all either bzero or read need because an array always occupies a contiguous chunk of memory.When you call functions with an array,
The latter is pretty uncommon since it'd only accept arrays of a certain size. How to convert a hexadecimal string to a binary string in CI have a text file with hexadecimal values. Now I need to convert the hexadecimal value to binary and need to save it on another file.
But I don't know how to convert the hexadecimal value to a binary string!
There are many ways to solve this question that use some arithmetics to convert from ascii character ranges 0-9 and a-f (or A-F) to binary. I wanted to find a solution which only uses a lookup table and benchmark that against a solution that uses arithmetics instead. Strangly enough, none of the answers above implement a purely arithmetic solution and some answers even assume that "converting to binary" means converting to a ascii string of characters "0" and "1".
Lets first do some setups. Firstly, we want to have the whole test data in memory so that we avoid disk I/O influencing the test. Here is how I create a header with a character array "testdata" of 104857600 bytes, roughly 105 MB. As the question was how to convert files, our implementation should be fast on large data.
Next, we create the lookup tables. I see two possible ways to solve this with a lookup table. Either the lookup table maps individual ascii hex characters to half bytes or it maps two hex characters to a full byte. In the former case, the lookup table has to have 256 entries. In the latter case, the lookup table has to have 256*256=65536 entries. We can reduce the size of the latter by realizing that the first bit of the first byte will never be used. So we only need a lookup table of 128*256=32768 entries. Since that solution also requires an additional calculation step (applying a bitmask) we will benchmark both. We end up with the following test cases:
This we can conclude lookup tables beat arithmetic solutions any time and that wasting memory for bigger lookup tables might be worth the additional runtime.void printBin(unsigned int num){
Quite easy!The quickest and easiest way is to read the hex file and, for each character ('0' through 'F') read, do a table lookup of the equivalent (0 through 15) binary value. There are, as ever, more elegant ways but this is very straightforward, maybe something like:
Now you have to use shifts and IORs/ADDs to construct words of the size you want from these individual 4-bit binary values.#include <stdio.h>
What necessitates the usage of the & operator while passing a structure through reference to a function?My query is relatively straightforward. There exists a structure called war_name with the following definition:
The input function for the aforementioned structure I have created is as follows:
Firstly, why does my compiler spit the error cannot convert 'war_name' to 'war_name*' for argument '1' to 'void enter_details(war_name*)' when I pass the ptr value directly to the enter_details() function? To test the hypothesis that merely passing ptr[i] to the function sends the location of the ith structure (which is what the function demands), I printed the value of ptr directly, and lo and behold, the address of the said structure was printed. Why is it that despite this development, the compiler spits and error and demands that I pass the address of the structure with the & operator, given that ptr[i] itself holds the value of the ith structure variable?
Secondly, apropos the conception of the ptr pointer (which points to the structure war_name) and the usage of malloc(), is the way I have initialized ptr with the free space granted by the said function acceptable? For the sake of reference, be advised that the book I am following first creates a pointer of arrays to the war_name struct and then passes the address of the said structures to the function? Is my method reasonable? Is it necessary to conceive an array of pointers to the said structures and then pass each structure variable's address to the enter_details() function, given that my method saves valuable memory?As said in the comments, there are issues in your code:
Third, you should also avoid using scanf() to read integers. Use fgets() then parse the input with sscanf():
Dynamic Linking Symbol ResolutionHow Does C handle symbol resolution when dynamically linking multiple .so files? If two libraries have function signature then does it just take the first one or is there some notion of name spacing by library?How can I get this code to output Congrats? I think it might have something to do with reversal, but I'm not sure [closed]Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.The code is as follows. The goal is to input the correct flag and the program will output "Congrats!". The problem of this program is that it keeps throwing out an "openssl/md5.h: no such file or directory" error. I have tried downloading the openssl and adding it to the Path under system variable, still cannot fix the issue. I asked around and get the answer of adding special flags to compile this file with gcc. I tried -lssl and -lcrypto, none of these two worked. Any suggestions?
while both are true in all the condition'y' is not equal to 'Y', so ch cannot be equal to both at the same time.  If ch == 'y' is true, then ch == 'Y' must be false and vice versa.  Thus the expression ch == 'y' && ch == 'Y' can never be true, because ch cannot be two different values at the same time.  It can only be one or (hint hint hint) the other at any given moment.How can one letter be at the same time equal to 'y' or 'Y'?
The user can enter only one letter either 'y' or 'Y' or some other letter.
does not make a sense. The condition of the if statement always evaluates to logical false.
determines whether the user entered either the letter 'y' or the letter 'Y'.
means that the user entered some other letter that is not 'y' and not 'Y'. The above statement also can be rewritten like
That is when the condition in the first if statemen evaluates to true then the condition in the second if statement evaluates to false and vice versa.
Read and study the references below, after that you will have a better understanding what the differences are and what your statements means.
Equality operatorsHow to make easy access to struct as matrixI want to create a struct which would be able to have a matrix and some parameters; so, for example, I have:
The members of a struct are accessed through that struct only via the member selection operator (.).  They are accessed through a pointer to the struct only via the indirect member selection operator (->).  C does not have operator overloading, so the form A[x][y] is not an alternative.
You could create a function or macro to hide the involvement of the data member, but personally, I don't think that would be better or clearer.It's doable though a bit tricky.
You could use technique similar to one used in Simple Dynamic Strings. Just place metadata before the actual matrix data.
Allocate it like a typical structure with flexible member.
Rather than returning a pointer of struct matrix from matrix_create() return matrix.data, the pointer to member.
This way you could use nice A[i][j] notation.
Next add a macro to translate this pointer to member back to struct matrix in a similar fashion as container_of.
The prolific way of printing documentation for hacky programs is generally:
This is ugly IMO, and doesn't make it easy to modify the documentation. is it really this simple? Does the preprocessor jump over strings, or will it notice the include directive?
Potential issues? I know anything that won't printf nicely will cause issues if it's put in the filesCreate an include file that defines the documentation as a variable.
You can use a shell script to create the include file from a plain .txt file.The contents of strings are not processed by the preprocessor, so you can't substitute  the contents of a file with a string like that.
If you want the help file to be plain text that doesn't look like a series of C strings, your only option is to read the contents of an external file at run time and print it.  And I wouldn't exactly call it error prone or complex:
C relational operators if-else [duplicate]This question already has answers here:So what happens is first 0<n is evaluated, with the result being either 0 or 1.  Then the result of check is compared to 1000, i.e. either 0<1000 or 1<1000 both of which are true so the condition will always be true.
You need to split up the comparisons as you did a few lines down:
For example, in this code, where is count stored? Usually, static variables will be stored in the Data segment, and local variables are stored on the stack.Formally, variables declared inside of a function as static have static storage duration, which means their lifetime is the lifetime of the entire program.
The C standard says nothing about stacks or segments as those are implementation details.  That being said, on Linux initialized static variables are typically placed in the .data section while uninitialized or 0 initialized variables are stored in the .bss section.Parent object with circular linked list of subobjects of same typeEvery time I create a Node, I want to be able to add it to a doubly linked list of Nodes that belongs to it's parent Node.
I've done similar things in the past but it was usually a List object that contained a Node with previous and next pointers. That same Node would be used as a sentinel.
This time is different because everything is of the same type and I'm having a hard time figuring out how to assemble everything correctly.
If a mutex is already locked how can pthread_mutex_lock(pthread_mutex_t *mutex); block the thread and still return a value at the same time?The mutex object referenced by mutex shall be locked by calling pthread_mutex_lock(). If the mutex is already locked, the calling thread shall block until the mutex becomes available. This operation shall return with the mutex object referenced by mutex in the locked state with the calling thread as its owner.
My question is, if the mutex is already locked, and we call pthread_mutex_lock(), does this function return a value even though the thread is blocked, or does it return the value after the block?
Illustration of my question.
Mutex is locked by 1st thread.
2nd thread tries to lock this mutex with pthread_mutex_lock().
What happens? When does pthread_mutex_lock() return its value to the second thread?
Is it after the mutex is unlocked by the 1st thread? Or, does it return its value then blocks the 2nd thread?Short answer to your question: pthread_mutex_lock(&mutex) will not return a value until the thread unblocks after it gets the lock. However, your code just sees a function call and perceives a direct return value.
If function pthread_mutex_lock(&mutex) returns zero, you can rely on the fact that your thread has locked mutex: don't forget to unlock it!
If the method returns a non-zero error code, the mutex is NOT locked by your thread, and you should not do a corresponding unlock.
The perspective of your code calling pthread_mutex_lock(&mutex):
If mutex was NOT locked, pthread_mutex_lock(&mutex) will lock mutex and return zero immediately.
If mutex was already locked by another thread, the function will block until your thread gets the lock on mutex and then return zero. However, the perspective of your code just sees a function call that returns a value: code in a thread doesn't notice its blocked. Unless, of course, you put timers around the function call.
If the mutex was already locked by your thread, the function  deadlocks. By default, a mutex is not re-entrant and you must avoid to lock it in an already locked context, e.g. recursion. I leave it out of scope how to do re-entrant locking. In this case, the function simply never returns.
If mutex cannot be locked for whatever reason, the function immediately returns with a non-zero error code.The description means the function will block until the mutex becomes unlocked (by its previous owner) then it locks the mutex and only after that returns. Now, the caller of the function is owner of the lock.Hand over strings with multiple lines in CI want to handover a multiple line string for the command line to the main function. For example:
callprogramm -I 'put in the string in the next line'
demoError in opening a C file using macos terminal Closed. This question needs debugging details. It is not currently accepting answers.How can I fix this error?Why is this UNION like a struct? I came across some code (it's in a library from Microchip) which has a union.
All was good, until I saw it assigned values to different members of the union right after each other.  My immediate thought was "They are over writing the same location..."
Then I decided to do a test.  By every measure I thought I understood, this union should be one byte (8 bits).  But it's not...  it's 4 bytes.
It should be the largest of any member, which each member is only 8 bits.
The code that caught my eye and made me investigate this is:
Which the third line merges into the values from the first and second.
So I wanted to test it, it's coming out as 4 bytes, not one.  I even tested it in a few different compilers (hence the #pragma usage for MS Visual C).
Each member is exactly 8 bits, and the last two struct overlap to place the PID values in the same memory location.  And yet this is 4 bytes every way I use a compiler to evaluate it.
Is there something in the behavior of adding structs to unions?
Any explanation is appreciated.While not explicitly specified in the C standard, bitfield will typically occupy a unit corresponding to the base type they are declared with.
In this case all of the bitfields are declared as unsigned.  This type is probably 4 bytes on your system so the bitfields occupy a unit of that type.
If you change the types of the fields to unsigned char or uint8_t they should take up only one byte.  Note that this assumes your compiler allows using these types for bitfields, although most do.C has the concept of implicit type. So unsigned will declare an unsigned int. But it gets weirder. The same goes if you only use const or static/auto.
What you want is an unsigned char.
It should be the largest of any member, which each member is only 8 bits.
It should be at least that size. Nothing prevents it from being bigger. It will not compile as you have duplicate member names in anonymous structures.
You do need to pack it if you use 8 bits type for your bitfields.
Remember that some compilers will pack to the type you specify (chibicc for example). While dbush was answering, I was adding my own answer as well, after digging deeper.
The "unsigned" implies an "int"  So you are defining the first 8 bits of an integer storage.
When limiting the size to unsigned char, the union is now actually 1 byte.Simple webRTC on an MCU ( esp32 ) with CI have a simple webserver running on an esp32 with Arduino framework.
The esp32 and the web app communicating via http requests and websocket packets.
I'm using Async socket for the server core and the server along with the websocket implementation from the same author: ESPAsyncWebServer
This is working properly.
Now if i want to reach this webserver from outside my local network without port forwarding or do any network related stuff, i have to use webRTC in some form.
I don't want to use some third party server for exchanging data with for example MQTT protocol or something else, because this adds latency and non privacy into the theme.
So my question is, does anybody knows about some pure C or Arduino implementation which uses simplified webRTC to accomplish this?
With "simplified" i mean, i don't want video/audio packet transportation or any complex stuff. Just plain data ( char or String or string or whatever ). With the smallest overhead to the precious ram. I searched a lot for pure C implementation and in the Arduino field too. But it seems to me that nobody did it before. I have seen some initiatives like this one: meshcommander. but they are incomplete or too resource hungry. ( they are made for a raspberry PI for example )
For TURN or ICE server i can use a cloud based one, or i can build my own for this purpose, to exchange information.
Thank you for the answers.
Sorry if i left out anything.rawrtc and amazon-kinesis-video-streams-webrtc-sdk-c are both Pure C.
The kinesis one does have media APIs, but just a few routines to packetize media. No encoders or anything like that.Snmpset not working on an agent generated by mib2cI generated code from MIB file with mib2c. When I try to set object with read-write access, it returns Error in packet. Reason: notWritable (That object does not support modification.
I tried to run my subagent with few debug flags. I found out that not a single function generated code is called on snmpset request, only on snmpget. smnpget on exactly same OID will return valid value. I have user with RW access everywhere. I can set value to sysName.0 with same user. I tried removing MIB file and use exact oid but had same result.
Because It's not even reaching code, I don't know much what to do.
I tried it with 2 tables generated same way.
One table has index as IMPLIED DisplayString and second table has INDEX as combination of 2 INTEGERs.
I found out that it created .conf file in /var/lib/snmp/ for each my agent. I tried to add create_user with same name & password but it disappeared after agent was started again.
Code was generetad using mib2c.mfd.conf . I tried mib2c.iterate.conf and it called function from generated code. It's not working with mib2c.mfd.conf but looks like it will work with mib2c.iterate.conf . I would like to be able make it works with mib2c.mfd.conf so I wouldn't need to change all subagents.
i am trying to make a simple code similar to a chatbot, but I'm running into an issue with my code, can someone please help me with this?
Here is what I get for the output, It does use some user input, so please keep that in mind.
ERROR: invalid inputThere are some misplaced variables.
First, you are storing the user input into variable w, but you are not using that variable in your comparison. Second, you are not comparing it to the correct variable for input.
Here are the corrections with the old lines commented out.
How to add a JNI C function, accessible as a java method, into my android application?I want to know how to(from android-studio or by modifying the build files), add a C/C++ file with a function that shows up as a java accessible method.Are char arrays guaranteed to be null terminated?#include <stdio.h>
Whenever we write a string, enclosed in double quotes, C automatically creates an array of characters for us, containing that string, terminated by the \0 character
In the above example b only has room for 2 characters so the null terminating char doesn't have a spot to be placed at and yet the compiler is reorganizing the memory store instructions so that a and c are stored before b in memory to make room for a \0 at the end of the array.
Is this expected or am I hitting undefined behavior?It is allowed to initialize a char array with a string if the array is at least large enough to hold all of the characters in the string besides the null terminator.
An array of character type may be initialized by a character string
literal or UTF−8 string literal, optionally enclosed in braces.
Successive bytes of the string literal (including the terminating null
However, this also means that you can't treat the array as a string since it's not null terminated.  So as written, since you're not performing any string operations on b, your code is fine.
As this gives more initializers than can fit in the array and is a constraint violation.  Section 6.7.9p2 states this as follows:
No initializer shall attempt to provide a value for an object not contained within the entity
If you were to declare and initialize the array like this:
Then b would be an array of size 3, which is large enough to hold the two characters in the string constant plus the terminating null byte, making b a string.
If the string constant used to initialize it is shorter than the array, the array will contain the characters in the string with successive elements set to 0, so the array will contain a string.
If the array is exactly large enough to contain the elements of the string but not the null terminator, the array will contain the characters in the string without the null terminator, meaning the array is not a string.
If the string constant (not counting the null terminator) is longer than the array, this is a constraint violation which triggers undefined behavior
If the array does not have an explicit size, the array will be sized to hold the string constant plus the terminating null byte.Whenever we write a string, enclosed in double quotes, C automatically creates an array of characters for us, containing that string, terminated by the \0 character.
Those notes are mildly misleading in this case.  I shall have to update them.
C automatically creates an array of characters for you, of just the right size, containing the string, terminated by the \0 character.
In the case of array initializers, however, things are slightly different.  When you write
the string is merely the initializer for an array which you are creating.  So you have complete control over the size.  There are several possibilities:
Needless to say, most of the time you want to use the b0 form.  Counting characters is tedious and error-prone.  As Brian Kernighan (one of the creators of C) has written in this context, "Let the computer do the dirty work."
and yet the compiler is reorganizing the memory store instructions so that a and c are stored before b in memory to make room for a \0 at the end of the array.
I don't know what's going on there, but it's safe to say that the compiler is not trying to "make room for a \0".  Compilers can and often do store variables in their own inscrutable internal order, matching neither the order you declared them, nor alphabetical order, nor anything else you might think of.  If under your compiler array b ended up with extra space after it which did contain a \0 as if to terminate the string, that was probably basically random chance, not because the compiler was trying to be nice to you and helping to make something like printf("%s\n", b) be better defined.  (Under the two compilers where I tried it, printf("%s\n", b) printed hi^E and hi  ??, clearly showing the presence of trailing random garbage, as expected.)There are two things in your question.
String literal. String literal (ie something enclosed in the double quotes) is always the correct null character terminated string.
Character array may only hold as many elements as it has so if you try to initialize two element array with three elements string literal, only two first will be written. So the array will not contain the null character terminated C string
It is an array. If the actual content is smaller than the dimensions of the array then you need to track the size of that content.
Answers here seem to have degenerated into a string discussion. Not all arrays of char are strings. However it is a very strong convention to use a null terminator as a sentinel if they are to be handled as de facto strings.
Your array may use something else, and may also have separators and zones. After all it may be a Union or overlay a structure. Possibly a staging area for another system.can somebody explain how array of pointer and pointer to an array work here [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.The simple assignment pint = p; is not allowed by those constraints. The compiler is required to produce at least one diagnostic message when compiling this code.
The constraint violation can be avoided by using an explicit cast: pint = (int *)p;. This conversion is allowed by 6.3.2.3 (Pointers) paragraph 7:
A pointer to an object type may be converted to a pointer to a different object type. If the resulting pointer is not correctly aligned69) for the referenced type, the behavior is undefined. Otherwise, when converted back again, the result shall compare equal to the original pointer. When a pointer to an object is converted to a pointer to a character type, the result points to the lowest addressed byte of the object. Successive increments of the result, up to the size of the object, yield pointers to the remaining bytes of the object.
A pointer to an array has the same alignment requirement as a pointer to an element of the array, as indicated by 6.5.3.4 (The sizeof and _Alignof operators) paragraph 3:
The _Alignof operator yields the alignment requirement of its operand type. The operand is not evaluated and the result is an integer constant. When applied to an array type, the result is the alignment requirement of the element type.
So the conversion (int *)p is allowed. However, the C standard does not describe what you can do with such a pointer other than convert it back to the original type. Since an array starts at the same address as its initial element, for a typical C compiler, (int *)p (where p is a pointer to an object with array type) will evaluate to a pointer to the initial element of the array. That is not guaranteed by the C standard, so it is better to avoid code like that.
The programmer's intention with pint = (int *)p; is presumably to get a pointer to the initial element of the array object pointed to by p. A perfectly legitimate way to do that is to do pint = *p; or pint = p[0]; Since p has type int (*)[2] then *p has type int [2] (array length 2 of int). By 6.3.2.1 (Lvalues, arrays, and function designators) paragraph 3, it is converted to a pointer to the initial element of the array:
Except when it is the operand of the sizeof operator, or the unary & operator, or is a string literal used to initialize an array, an expression that has type “array of type” is converted to an expression with type “pointer to type” that points to the initial element of the array object and is not an lvalue. If the array object has register storage class, the behavior is undefined.
Colloquially, the array is said to "decay" to a pointer to its initial element.
The compiler does not need to fully accept it and needs to produce a diagnostic message. The behavior is undefined by omission of any explicit definition of required behavior.
"The operand of the unary * operator shall have pointer type" (6.5.3.2 paragraph 2). pint has type int * so *pint is OK. *pint has type int. The leftmost * of **pint is operating on that int value so is not OK.
p has type int (*)[2] so *p is OK. *p has type int [2] which decays to an int * pointing to the initial element of the int [2]. The leftmost * of **p is operating on that int * value so is OK.Doxygen - documenting X MacroI'm using Doxygen version 1.8.11 and trying to doc my X macro:
I have the MACRO_EXPANSION and ENABLE_PREPROCESSING set to YES and the @file at the beginning of my file.
I'd like the HTML created with the doxygen to show the documentation for each variable defined with the x macro. Can it be done?A bit to long for a comment. I don't see a problem (with 1.8.11 and 1.9.2).
The doxygen version 1.8.11 is from December 2015, so I would really advise you to upgrade to the current version (1.9.2)
I wrote this code by declaring everything but still I am getting a compile error:
Could anyone tell me what is  the error and how I should correct it.?The realloc function is returning a void * which you're assigning to a int *.  In C, conversions between a void * and any other object pointer can be performed without a cast.  However, the name of the file you're compiling has a .cpp extension.  Most compilers will see that and compile it as a C++ program, and in C++ a conversion from void * to int * requires a cast.
Since the code appears to be completely C and you've used the C tag, I'm assuming you want to compile a C program.  That being the case, rename the main.cpp file to main.c and it should compile properly.You compile the C program using C++ compiler. You need to:
Do not cast or do any other magic. It is very bad to compile C program using C++ compiler as they are different languages and many things differ.Possible values held by a variableWhat is meant by the size of a type will determine how many different possible values a variable can hold
For example in my book, it says that a char variable can hold a range of values from -128 to 127
I am just trying to understand what the text in bold implies.N bits can represent 2N different values:
A type that's 8 bits wide can represent 28, or 256 different values. A type that's 16 bits wide1 can represent 216, or 65536 different values.
The same bit patterns can be interpreted different ways.  There are several different ways to represent signed integer values - two's complement, ones' complement, and sign-magnitude are the three you're most likely to hear about, and two's complement is by far the most common.  Here's a 4-bit example showing how bits are interpreted in each scheme:
4 bits can represent 16 different values, but those values depend on how the bits are interpreted.
Thus, unsigned char represents values in the range [0..255] (assuming CHAR_BIT == 8), where signed char represents values in the range [-128..127] (assuming CHAR_BIT == 8 and two's complement representation for signed values).  It's the same number of values (256), just over different ranges.
Similarly, a 32-bit float can represent the same number of values as a 32-bit int (4294967296), but they are interpreted differently.  The bit pattern 439d145a16 can represent either the floating point value 3.14159 or the integer value 1134367834 (assuming IEEE-754 single-precision floating point).
C allows for the presence of padding bits that don't contribute to the value representation for types other than unsigned char, but you're unlikely to see anything like that on modern hardware.The variables are stored in the memory which consists of bytes. Each variable type differs in the way it represents these bytes and the number of bytes it reserves.
For your example, a char is contained in a 1-byte memory block, and the byte holds 8-bits. When you represent these bits in an unsigned number, the minimum number you can get is 0 (0b00000000) and the maximum number is 255 (0b11111111). Back to the char example, the char is being represented in a signed way, search for 2's complement to get more details, this representation can hold the values you mentioned by changing the way the byte is translated from the previous method. for example the number (0b00000000) is still 0, but the number (0b11111111) is -1.how Converting 2 arrays of bytes (uint8_t) into a word (uint16_t)?I want to convert two times the Signal[8] values into a uint16_t word, so I can send it via the SPI port.(shift register)?
Additions or shifts by 0 are unnecessary and only added for code consistency; they will be optimised away by compiler anyway, but you can omit, if you prefer. Similarly the casts in second case, but these in addition silent the compiler from warning about precision loss.
Note, though, that even though promotion to int occurs in first case int might only be of size of 16 bits – and as you apparently operate on a MCU chances for rise – in which case the shift could provoke overflow, thus undefined behaviour, thus the cast should be applied in any case!Malloc invoking system callI was asked question in an quiz that a malloc() library call will always invoke mmap() or brk(). The answer is False. I am not able to get how it is possible?
The first time you call malloc(1) it will ask the kernel for a whole bunch of memory, because the kernel has a minimum amount of memory it can give you. Then it will give you one byte of memory. The next time you call malloc(1) it will give you another byte out of that big block it allocated. And so on until that block is used up. Then it will allocate more memory from the kernel.Reading a matrix from a file leads to a crash for some dimensionsI want to read a matrix from a file and check if it is a magic square. If it is, I want to delete from the matrix all the odd numbers and finally write the new matrix to a new file.
My code works correctly for 2x2 until 4x4 matrices, but when I use 5x5 matrices and larger it crashes. How can I fix it? Thanks in advance.
For libraries not stored in the linkers standard location the option -L specifies an additional search path to lookup libraries specified using the -l option, that is libavcodec.x.y.z in this case.
For a detailed reference on GCC's linker option, please read here. Are you mixing C and C++?  One issue that can occur is that the declarations in the .h file for a .c file need to be surrounded by:
I use sscanf with "%[^',']" format specifier and I test each value if it is correct or not and in a certain range.
Do you have any idea of the best type to store my values? Or maybe any advice? There is no type that could match your ufloat. All floating point types are signed so extracting from your string could be done like this:
If you want to get the absolute value from f1, just add f1 = fabsf(f1); after the sscanf.Assuming "1,Hello,E025FFDA,-126.56,52.34,true" is the string you want to parse, you can do it like this:
This isn't how to enable -fpic I have already stated that I already did. And this is about Portage, Gentoo Linux's package manager
Previously this was the final subcommand that shows up before the build stops.
Though for some reason it changed to this though the ld error still persists though.
I've been trying to emerge OpenImageIO though it always stops at the linking stage, I've already tried default USE flags. Compiling it locally also gives the same error. I've also tried adding -fpic in the linker flags
There were some Cmake warnings the showed up, IDK how relevant they are since JpegTurbo has already emerged and I've already tried emerging without jpeg support. I'm somewhat suspicious over the boost error although most results that come up simply says it's not an issue and you can build. For additional info, my Cmake is updated to the latest version.
May be the problem I need to use some additional flags wthile compiling with clang command?Is it posible to make a GUI for C language in HTML , CSS and JS [closed]Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.I am a beginner in the C langauge. I want to know whether it is possible to create a GUI using web technologies, in the C language. In Python, I can do it with a library called PyWebView. Is there any way that I can do the same thing in C?
Are they both correct? Why? and is it necessary to add the lowercase of complex before struct? What  is general situation?With the first you can use either the type-alias COMPLEX or struct complex.
With the second you have an anonymous structure which can only be used with the type-alias COMPLEX.
With that said, in C++ any structure name is also a type-name and can be used as a type directly:
This is a struct complex which has been typedef'ed to COMPLEX. You can now use both struct complex c1; and COMPLEX c1;. As you tagged this question C++, you can also use complex c1; as the struct (and thus, the typedef to avoid it) is not necessary in C++.
This is an unnamed struct, typedef'ed to COMPLEX. You can now use COMPLEX c1;.
So far for the difference between these two (C) constructs.
As you tagged this question C++, the correct thing to do would be to use the features of the C++ header <complex>:
For starters there is no anonymous structure as others have written in their answers to your question. There is an unnamed structure (a structure without a tag name) that has the alias name COMPLEX
In C++ the term unnamed class/structure is documented like (the C++ 14 Standard, 9 Classes)
A class-specifier whose class-head omits the class-head-name defines
As for the notion anonymous structure then it is defined in C the following way (6.7.2.1 Structure and union specifiers, p.#1)
13 An unnamed member of structure type with no tag is called an
anonymous structure; an unnamed member of union type with no tag is
called an anonymous union. The members of an anonymous structure or
union are considered to be members of the containing structure or
union. This applies recursively if the containing structure or union
Bear in mind that in C++ opposite to C there is no such a notion as anonymous structure. In C++ there is only the notion of anonymous union.
Are they both correct? Why? and is it necessary to add the lowercase of complex before struct? What is general situation?
then the both typedef declarations are correct. And there is no need to use exactly lower-case name complex as the structure tag. You may use also upper-case name COMPLEX as the structure tag.
there is declared a structure without a tag name. So you can refer it only by means of its alias name COMPLEX.
In C structure tag names have their own name space that do not conflict with  identifier names in other name spaces.
1 If more than one declaration of a particular identifier is visible
at any point in a translation unit, the syntactic context
disambiguates uses that refer to different entities. Thus, there are
separate name spaces for various categories of identifiers, as
The compiler will issue an error because the declaration of the local variable COMPLEX hides the alias name of the unnamed structure declared in the file scope.
then the name COMPLEX of the local variable will not conflict with the tag name COMPLEX of the structure.  The C compiler can only issue a message that declared variables are not used.
Another important difference is that sometimes you need to refer to the declared structure specifier within the structure definition itself.
For example if you want to declare a singly-linked list in C you need to write
the compiler considers this structure definition as declarations of two different type specifiers: unnamed structure with the alias name Node and another structure with the tag name Node. These types are not compatible.
As for C++ then you may use the name of a structure tag without specifying the keyword struct
Also you can refer the structure specifier within its definition without using the keyword struct because (the C++ 15 Standard, 9 Classes)
2 A class-name is inserted into the scope in which it is declared
immediately after the class-name is seen. The class-name is also
inserted into the scope of the class itself; this is known as the
But again a declaration of a variable or a function can hide a declaration of a structure. In this case you need to use the keyword struct. Such using of a name with the keyword struct is called in C++ as elaborated type specifier.
Without specifying the keyword struct the compiler will issue an error because the declaration of the integer variable hides the declaration of the structure.
Pay attention to that many programmers do not even know that the typedef in C and C++ can be also rewritten like
This is really because the type system changed subtly between C and C++. User defined structures (and enums) in C had "tags", which were treated as different from types.
This way of working is still supported as your example shows, but C++ added a new rule, that says that structure tags are always types as well. Thus, viewed from a C view-point it's as if the C++ compiler adds the typedef for you. Thus in C++ you no longer need to say "struct" before declaring variable of your structure type.
So yes, both ways are "correct", one is the old C way, and will work in both C and C++, the other is the native C++ way, and will not compile in C. It's possible your example needed C compatibility for some of the code but not all.
If you need C-compatibility you should use the pattern above, but it is not common practice to use it for native C++ code.struct definition is as below:
you use one name for struct name and object name. you can use object in side of structure definition without declare a name for structIn C++, there is only a subtle difference. It's a holdover from C, in which it makes a difference.
The C language standard (C89 §3.1.2.3, C99 §6.2.3, and C11 §6.2.3) mandates separate namespaces for different categories of identifiers, including tag identifiers (for struct/union/enum) and ordinary identifiers (for typedef and other identifiers).
you would get a compiler error, because Foo is only defined in the tag namespace.
Now struct Foo (in the tag namespace) and just plain Foo (in the ordinary identifier namespace) both refer to the same thing, and you can freely declare objects of type Foo without the struct keyword.
declares an anonymous structure and creates a typedef for it. Thus, with this construct, it doesn't have a name in the tag namespace, only a name in the typedef namespace. This means it also cannot be forward-declared. If you want to make a forward declaration, you have to give it a name in the tag namespace.
In C++, all struct/union/enum/class declarations act like they are implicitly typedef'ed, as long as the name is not hidden by another declaration with the same name.There is nothing like C/C++ language.
Aliases tagless structure to type COMPLEX
What is the practical difference?
As you see using the first one you can define new objects using the new type COMPLEX and struct complex.
The secon type decvlaration allows only definitions using COMPLEX type. Think of "namespaces" here: struct names live in their own namespace.
which defines a variable myvar with an unnamed struct type.My c code won't output anything whatsoever if it has a scanf(); inside of the code#include<stdio.h>
this is the code that i wrote for a simple calculation (I am VERY new to programming in c and low level languages) however no matter the program if it has a scanf it will not output any other code. Anyone have idea as to why this happens? I'd like both a solution and explanation if possible!:)You forgot the scanf for y:
and int triArea(x, y) should be int triArea(int x, int y). Any decent compiler should issue a warning for this.
Bonus: why do you call your variable x, and y? Call them length and height instead. Code readability is very important, and correct naming of variables and functions is very important.How do I get rid of this Valgrind warning and use argv[]?I am quite new to C programming and I am coding this program to read in a file and prints out into a table the automatically aligns itself. Everything works perfectly but I am getting a Valgrind warning that states, conditional jump or move depends on uninitialised value(s). I also need to be able to pass in any .txt file not just a specific .txt file. I know that I can use argv but not sure how to use it in a function than call it in main.
But only maxLength2 is initialized to zero in that statement. The other two variables have undefined values.
Hence, when the code gets to line 50 or line 54 and makes this comparison:
It's uncertain what maxLength was expected to be.Don't use declarations like this:
it's dangerous and difficult to read because maxLength and maxLength1 will not be initialized to 0.
Instead declare each variable on a separate line, which is far more readable:
How to call functions from another project in multi-projects in ARM DS-5?I'm using ARM DS-5 for my current project. In my workspace, there are two projects: test and test_bsp. My purpose is that the "test_bsp" project includes header and source files, and the application project only needs to call the functions. In the project properties, I've included the paths of all the source and header files in the "test_bsp". However, when I'm trying to build the project, I've still got an error: L2618E: Undefined symbol (my function) (referred from main.o).  Here is an example:
How do I translate a C union into Delphi? typedef struct _FILE_OBJECTID_INFORMATION {
How to translate such a union to Delphi?The Pascal equivalent of a C union is known as a variant record. 
The first part of the declaration - up to the reserved word case - is the same as that of a standard record type. The remainder of the declaration - from case to the optional final semicolon - is called the variant part. In the variant part,
tag is optional and can be any valid identifier. If you omit tag, omit the colon (:) after it as well.
ordinal Type denotes an ordinal type.
Each constantList is a constant denoting a value of type ordinal Type, or a comma-delimited list of such constants. No value can
be represented more than once in the combined constantLists. Each variant is a semicolon-delimited list of declarations resembling the fieldList: type constructions in the main part of the
As for the rest, it's pretty routine: LONGLONG is a 64 bit integer, and UCHAR is unsigned char, or AnsiChar in Delphi.
It's possible that Byte may be more appropriate than AnsiChar. It's a bit hard to tell of course because C, unlike Pascal, doesn't have separate types for Byte and AnsiChar. But these arrays look to me as though they would be read as text so my guess is that AnsiChar would be more appropriate.Similar structure can be found in JEDI API Lib:
An input item is read from the stream, unless the specification includes an n specifier. An
input item is defined as the longest sequence of input characters which does not exceed
any specified field width and which is, or is a prefix of, a matching input sequence. 285)
The first character, if any, after the input item remains unread.
When scanning a + followed by a space (i.e. "+ ") using a numeric conversion specifier will result in a matching failure and the + will be silently removed from the input.
Remaining disk space in linux and the limits of longI understand that the disk space in linux could be programmatically retrieved using:
Theoretically the size of stat.f_bavail, could be also an unsigned long (I suspect). Wouldn't the multiplication of two unsigned long be much more than a long return type would hold?Bubble Sort not sorting correctlyHi I had written a bubble sort algorithm but it is not working as it supposed to. Below is code.
You assing to array[i] the undefined value of the uninitialized temp variable, you should do the assignment switching the right hand side and the left hand side.  That is the correct way of switching two array cells... and not what you have done.
The check for flag must be done outside of the inner loop, as you break from it as soon as you exchange a variable, and it is not clear if you need to continue moving the bubble up in the array.
The flag should control the exit of the external loop... once after you have moved the bubble through the whole array and no exchange has been done, you can exit.  I suggested in my code to use a do {} while () loop, better than a for loop, that will confuse you, having two indexes in the inner loop, when only one (the bubble position) is needed.
it has been flagged in the comments, but if (flag = 0) assigns 0 to flag, making that always flag is 0 and the condition always false.
I use the j variable (derived by incrementing i) to avoid the writing of i+1 several times in the code.  With an optimizer compiler it is not an issue, as both codes will give the same or similar assembler code.  But with a nonoptimizing compiler, you will be calculating the value of i+1 in several places, that can be avoided by assigning to j the value i + 1.  It could also be written as:
for (int i = 0, j = 1; j < size; i++, j++)How do I print adjacent elements that have maximum differences if there are two max differences in the arrayI made a program where I've inputted an array of n elements and I'm trying to find the differences of two adjacent elements in the array. After I find the max difference of two numbers I'm supposed to print those two array elements.
I've successfully found the max difference of an array if there's only one pair of adjacent elements. The problem is what if I'm given a test case where there are two pairs of elements that have the same maximum difference value? I'm wondering how do I print those two pairs of numbers since my code only prints out the first two adjacent elements and not the rest
You do not remember the indexes.
You should check if the difference is greater or equal.
You need another array to keep track of the previous (equal) maximums