Muxing video H264 and data with mpegtsmux GtsreamerI would like to mux H264 video and data (like a buffer or file) with mpegtsmux.
I would like to send a data updated at the same rate of an MPEG-TS frame is sended to UDP.
I'm able to use the gst-launch-1.0 command below in order to mux 2 identical streams :
Can you help me to do this?
Thank you in advance for your help,
ClementHow to make libreadline or libedit cope with SIGALRM? I am writing a Linux program that interacts with some custom hardware
via GPIO lines. It uses a timer periodically delivering SIGALRM in
order to manage the timing of these interactions, and there is quite
some work performed within the signal handler. The program offers a
command-line interface, and I would love to have the line-editing
convenience provided by libreadline. Unfortunately, it would seem
libreadline does not cope well with those periodic signals. I also tried
the readline compatibility mode of libedit (a.k.a. “editline”), with
Is there an easy way to have readline capability in a program that
receives numerous SIGALRM signals?
When using libreadline, if the timer is running, some of the characters
typed are randomly echoed twice. For example, typing "help" may result
in "heelp" being displayed on the terminal. The issue is only apparent
in the echo: the program does receive the word as typed (i.e. "help").
When using libedit in readline compatibility mode, if the timer is
running, readline() returns NULL whenever it is interrupted by the
When the timer is stopped, everything works as expected, both with
I moved the command interpreter out of main().I found a solution. The issue can be fixed by using the asynchronous
Note that the issue is fixed only if the macro FIX_BUG is defined.
Here is my understanding of the problem. When select() is interrupted
by a signal, it returns -1 with errno set to EINTR. When this
happens, most of the time the file descriptor set fds turns out empty.
In some cases, however, select() leaves STDIN_FILENO within fds.
In this case, the program should not attempt to process its input. If
we call rl_callback_read_char() despite select() having returned
I wonder whether this is a bug in the implementation of readline().
Maybe it is implemented on top of this async interface and it fails to
check the value returned by select()?Implementing CoreML in a Project Using Plain CI'm working on a piece of software that's entirely in C. They'd like me to implement CoreML for the Mac build of the software to use one of the models as CoreML has some great on-device functionality.
How would one go about implementing something like this without using something such as SwiftUI? The model would basically be handling live video feed data and that's it.Uniform distribution in arc4random_uniform and PCGBoth arc4random_uniform from OpenBSD and the PCG library by Melissa O'Neill have a similar looking algorithm to generate a non biased unsigned integer value up to an excluding upper bound.
If it's always zero then why have the loop and the if statement at all?
Because bound is a uint64_t, -bound is evaluated modulo 264. The result is 264−bound, not −bound.
Then -bound % bound calculates the residue of 264−bound modulo bound. This equals the residue of 264 modulo bound.
By setting threshold to this and rejecting numbers that are less than threshold, the routine reduces the accepted interval to 264−threshold numbers. The result is an interval that has a number of numbers that is a multiple of bound.
From a number r selected in that interval, the routine returns r % bound. Due to the trimming of the interval, there are an equal number of occurrences of each residue, so the result has no bias for any residue over any other.Const array of arrays as function argumentI don't quite understand how to correctly arrange const in order to pass a constant array of arrays to a function, for example, an array of strings:
Could you tell me where to put const? As I understand it, there should be two const and one of them in the example above should stand before char.
There is a high probability of a duplicate, but I could not find a similar question :(First of all, the declaration isn't ideal. char strings[][2]  declares an indeterminate amount of char[2] arrays, where the amount is determined by the initializers. In most cases it makes more sense to declare an array of pointers instead, since that means that the strings pointed at do not need to have a certain fixed length.
So you could change the declaration to const char* strings[3] = { "a", "b", "c" };. Unless of course the intention is to only allow strings on 1 character and 2 null terminator, then the original code was correct. And if you need read/writeable strings then we can't use pointer notation either.
You can pass a const char* strings[3] to a function by declaring that function as
Just like you declared the array you pass to the function.
Now as it happens, arrays when part of a function declaration "decay" into a pointer to the first element. In this case a pointer to a const char* item, written as const char**.
So you could have written void f (const char** strings); and it would have been equivalent.I think this resource explains it nicely. In general, it depends what "depth" of const guarding you need. If you want function "f" to have read-only access on both the "outer" pointer, the pointer it points to (the "inner" pointer), and the char the "inner" pointer points to, then use
It is important to understand the difference between an array of arrays (for example, an array of arrays of 2 chars) and an array of pointers. As the wording suggests, their element type is totally different:
Each single element of an array of arrays, like my_arr_of_arrays below, is, well, an array! Not an address, not a pointer: Each element is a proper array, each of the same size (her: 2), a succession of a fixed number of sub-elements. The data is right there in the array object. After char my_arr_of_arrays[][2] = { "a", "b", "c", "" };, my_arr_of_arrays is a succession of characters, grouped in pairs: 'a', '\0', 'b', '\0', 'c', '\0', '\0', '\0'. The picture below illustrates that. Each element in my_arr_of_arrays has a size of 2 bytes. Each string literal is used to copy the characters in it into the corresponding array elements of my_arr_of_arrays. The data can be overwritten later, the copy is not const.
Contrast this with an array of pointers, like my_arr_of_ptrs below! Each element in such an array is, well, a pointer. The data proper is somewhere else! The actual data may have been allocated with malloc, or it is static data like the string literals in my example below. Each element — each address — has a size of 4 byte on a 32 bit architecture, or 8 byte on a 64 bit architecture. Nothing is copied from the string literals: The pointers simply point to the location in the program where the literals themselves are stored. The data is const and cannot be overwritten.
It is confusing that these completely different data structures can be initialized with the same curly-braced initializer list; it is confusing that string literals can serve as a data source for copying characters over into an array, or that their address can be taken and assigned to a pointer: Both char arr[3] = "12": and char *ptr = "12"; are valid, but for arr a copy is made and for ptr the address of the string literal itself is taken.
Your program shows that C permits you to pass an address of an array of 2 chars to a function that expects the address of a pointer; but that is wrong and leads to disaster if the function tries to dereference an "address" which is, in fact, a sequence of characters. C++ forbids this nonsensical conversion.
The following program and image may shed light on the data layout of the two different arrays.
how to measure the cost of context switching more preciselyI am writing some code to roughly measure the cost of context switching. The basic idea is inside the textbook OSTEP. And based on the idea, I wrote some code as below:
but I still have some questions about this problem.
I've read other's code, and they just use read(pipefd_2[0], NULL, 0) and write(pipefd_1[1], NULL, 0) to perform read and write operation. I am not sure if you have not written some data to pipe1 in one process yet, and you want to read the data through pipe1 in other process, will context switching occur in this situation? or read function just return 0?
Since context switching will happen if you read through pipe, the precise cost of context switching should be from leaving that process to entering the other process and not include the time of executing some instructions in later process, so I think use this way to calculate the cost of context switching may not be precise enough. Is this because the execution time is negligible compared to switching contexts?
The code is OK. read() does not return 0 if there's no data in the pipe it blocks.
That's why the ping pong you're doing effectively measures the cost
of context switches (+IO overhead).
read() returns 0  for the read end of a pipe only when all OS-counted references (created
via dup* functions or forking in conjuction with fd inheritance)
to the corresponding write end are closed.
You're effectively measuring context switches + the pipe's IO overhead. You can measure approximate IO overhead of the pipe separately by adapting the code to use just one pipe on a >=2 core system (so there's almost no context switch per an io call) and making one process a permanent reader and the other a permanent writer (https://pastebin.com/cGDWFdgQ). I'm getting about 2*0.55µs overhead + about 5.5µs for the whole thing so about 4.4µs per context switch).On ARM macOS when explicitly raise()-ing a signal, some return addresses are garbled on the stackHere's a simple program for ARM macOS that installs a signal handler for SIGSEGV, then generates one. In the signal handler function, the stack is walked with the usual frame pointer chasing algorithm, then the symbolized version is printed out:
This works fine when a "regular" SIGSEGV happens, but when it's raised explicitly, return values on the stack seem garbled, specifically, the upper part seems to contain garbage:
The behavior is the same regardless of which signal is raised. What am I missing?As @Codo has correctly identified, this is PAC.
The upper bits of the address are not garbled, but rather contain a salted hash of the register's lower bits.
And contrary to your claims, this happens with regular segfaults too. For example, calling fprintf(NULL, "a"); results in:
This is because all system binaries, including libraries, are compiled for the arm64e ABI and will make use of PAC. Now, your binary is running as a regular old arm64 binary and would crash if it passed an unsigned function pointer to a library function, or got a signed one returned. So the kernel actually disables 3 of the 4 keys that your process can use (IA, IB, DA and DB). But one of those, IB, is used solely for stack frames and so that one is left enabled even in arm64 binaries.
The reason why some return addresses are still not signed though is:
The main + 56 and start + 4 were pushed by your code, which is arm64 and hence doesn't sign them.
The flockfile + 28 is the instruction that crashed, whose address was never pushed to the stack, but extracted from the thread state.
So everything's working exactly as it's supposed to.
After attempting to use this to aid me in debugging myself, I find the PAC'ed addresses to be annoying after all. You commented about ptrauth_strip in ptrauth.h, but that will actually not work inside an arm64 process (it's aliased to a macro that does nothing), nor will __builtin_ptrauth_strip (the compiler will error out).
The compiler won't even let you use a raw xpaci instruction when targeting arm64, but nothing on the hardware level prevents the instruction from working, so you can still manually inject the opcode.
Based on this, I wrote a signal handler that properly strips PAC signatures from an arm64 process:
This will only work on arm64(e) as-is, but for x86_64 all you'd have to do is ifdef out the __asm__ and replace it with a stub that returns pc unchanged. I am hoping someone can direct me, so I can learn proficiency in c [closed]Closed. This question does not meet Stack Overflow guidelines. It is not currently accepting answers.Modify the grade book code from Unit 3 so that it uses heap memory to store percentage grades in the range from 0 to 100 (inclusive). The program should allow the user to indicate when he or she is done entering grades (since the user may not have grades to fill the whole array). When the user is done entering grades, the program should print out the grades entered by the user. Be sure to free the heap memory before the program ends.
I can't seem to get my gradeBook at the end to execute correctly with for (j=0; j<= i; j++) and I know I am missing several pieces to work together. Any assistance/resources are greatly appreciated.
The instructor is not very helpful.Disclaimer - my solutions below are done to help you get the immediate issues with your code to a point to where it will work and you can continue your learning path.  Please keep in mind that this code will NOT suffice in the real world, but since you are still in 'learning land' it will work for your needs, for now. Please read through comments made by users and take them into consideration as well. In addition, you are using library functions that have LOTS of caveats and pitfalls.  Once you understand the immediate mistakes of your current code, do some SO searches for these functions (fgets(), strncmp(), atoi(), and malloc()) to find more information on correctly using them.
Your code has multiple syntax errors and logical/design issues.
First lesson to learning 'C':  The compiler is your friend.
The code you originally posted won't compile.  Let's see what our friend, the compiler, has to say...
Do you see how it broke this into two error messages?  That means you have something wrong with your string.
You need to escape the double quotes around Done.
Remove the carriage return after 'for' or break it up into multiple strings like:
This is telling us that we are using a function (strncmp) that we haven't declared yet.
The compiler is telling you that your second argument is an (int), but the function requires a pointer to a char.
Declare a char so you can pass a pointer to it
gradebook is an array of type float.  You are multiplying a pointer to float times an int (size_t) here.  You can't multiply pointers in C.  Even if gradeBook was a float, multiplying a float and an int would yield a float. malloc expects an int (size_t).
Solution: change gradeBook to totalEntered.
Now, we should be able to compile and run the program.
It is wrong and won't output what you are expecting
This still has a problem though.  gradeBook is never updated anywhere so it will always ouput '0.00'.  I am not sure how you want to store or present the data so I took the liberty of making a few modifications to your initial code below.  I kept things close in spirit to your original code to provide you with a stepping stone to get through this set of problems.
If there is something you don't understand or want different, please let us know. Good Luck!linux terminal output redundant contentMy Linux is Arch, my configuration is as follows:
When I use C output statements, such as printf and putchar('A');, if I don't add \r or \n at the end, I will get an extra '%' character on the terminal.
This problem has troubled me for a long time, so that I don't know who is the problem, with dwm? With sh? With zhs?This is a feature of zsh to show when a program has ended without a final newline and to distinguish zsh’s command prompt from the program output.
You can disable it with the zsh command PROMPT_EOL_MARK=''. You can also set it to something else, such as PROMPT_EOL_MARK=' -- The program did not end with a newline.'.Multithreaded Server Signal Thread termination in CI have a multithreaded server in C, using POSIX threads, where I want to terminate it when I press Ctl+C in keyboard.
When I press Ctl+C, nothing happens. When I use printf to see if something happened, even if the thread receives the signal, nothing happens. Does anybody knows why?Changing an integer grade into a character grade using a switch statementUsing the switch statement, write a program that converts a numerical grade into a letter
Print an error message if the grade is larger than 100 or less than 0.
Break the grade into two digits, then use a switch statement to test the ten's digit.
How can I change the code to let 100 become A? I input 100 and the output was F.
In a real world program you would likely create a struct per grade, then search through a table of read-only elements. Example:
This is a naive linear search method but since the amount of items is so limited, it's likely quite efficient. Alternatively you could use standard C bsearch, in case you have a larger amount of sorted data.
Notably, we don't even need to know the lower limit since that's implicit by the previous item in the array.It is better to not read two digits, because:
This tries to read the input and process this input in one step, while these are separate processes.
If the input is 100, it will leave the last 0 character in the input stream.
The cases 10 and 100 are indistinguishable.
The hint to "break the grade into two digits" is misleading for similar reasons.
The (probably) intended solution
Here is, what I assume to be, more or less the intended solution. It reads the entire (unsigned) integer, and uses a switch for its value divided by 10. The one not-so-elegant part is the default case (more of an "else" here) which has to distinguish between valid 3-digit input (i.e. 100 and invalid input.
Technically, part of the input is now being handled by an if-statement instead of a switch, but this is the most sensible solution given the problem statement. A bit better would be to catch the edge case grade == 100 at the top of function and leave the default case to only return an error value.
There is a GNU extension called case ranges which allows for this to be implemented rather directly using a switch. Since this is non-standard C, this is generally not a recommended method.
How to convert a hex string to a uint8_t array? (C language)how can I convert a hex string to a uint8_t array?
You can use sscanf() to convert 2 bytes at a time from the source string into the destination array:
Note however that this approach may be inefficient, with a quadratic time complexity, on architectures where the standard library computes the length of the source string for each call to sscanf(). Using an intermediary array solves this problem:
Purists may argue that %hhx expects a pointer to an unsigned char instead of a uint8_t so the format should be "%"SCNx8 or "%2"SCNx8, defined in <inttypes.h>, but these alternatives are less readable and unnecessary as type uint8_t is always identical to type unsigned char on architectures where it is defined.The first thing you need to learn is that decimal, hexadecimal or even octal are just how the binary numbers stored in the computer memory are presented. Once you store the bytes in your array, they aren't really hexadecimal anymore.
Now for how to solve your problem: You need to extract two characters at a time, then convert each character to the corresponding integer value, and use bit-shirt and bit-or to combine them into a single byte value.
Converting the digits 0 to 9 into their corresponding value is easy, since the C specification say that they must be encoded contiguously (i.e. '0' must come right before '1' and so on). That means you can use simple subtraction with '0' to get the numeric value ('0' - '0' == 0, '1' - '0' == 1 etc.).
The letters A to F are harder through, because there are many different possible encodings, including some that doesn't place letters contiguously. With that said, the most common encoding ASCII do is doing that, which means on most system you can use the same "trick" as for the decimal digits.
Then how to combine them, the first value needs to be shifted up (to the left) by four bits, and then bitwised OR'ed with the second value.
The result of that should be a single byte whose value is the same as the two hexadecimal digits from the string. Append this value to the array.With
for all the values (make sure data has an even number of characters).
The function hexdigit() (implementation is left as an exercise) converts '0' to 0, '1' to 1, ..., 'a' to 10, 'A' to 10, ...Why is it not possible to replace stdout with pipe output directly?I want to pipe the output of a child process to the parent's stdout. I know there are other ways of doing this, but why can't a pipe's read-end be duplicated to stdout? Why doesn't the program print what is written to the pipes write end?
Here i have a minimal example (without any subprocesses) of what I'm trying to do. Im expecting to see test in the output when running, but the program outputs nothing.
A pipe is two “files” that share a buffer and some locking or control semantics. When you write into the pipe, the data is put into the buffer. When you read from a pipe, the data is taken from a buffer.
There is nothing in the pipe that moves data to some output device.
If you use dup2 to duplicate the read side of the pipe into the standard output file descriptor (number 1), then all you have is the read side of the pipe on file descriptor 1. That means you can issue read operations to file descriptor 1, and the system will give your program data from the pipe.
There is nothing “special” about file descriptor 1 in this regard. Putting any file on file descriptor 1 does not cause that file to be automatically sent anywhere. 
The way standard output works normally is that you open a terminal or some chosen output file or other device on file descriptor 1, and then you send things to that device or file by writing to file descriptor 1. The operating system does not automatically write things to file descriptor 1; you have to issue write operations.How do I change a particular int value in an array to a char in C? [closed]Closed. This question needs details or clarity. It is not currently accepting answers.Then you cannot replace the zeroes with a dot, because the dot is a character and not a number (there is a numerical representation of dot, i.e.: '.', but it would be treated as int and thus not printed as a dot).
In that case, in order to print dots instead of zeroes, you must intervene in the printing function. For instance:
how to pass a pointer to struct to another function in C, in calling function if I have access to only pointer variableI have a function
What I am doing wrongThe use of types ("double void" i.e. void **) is a bit of a red flag here. If you want to wrap malloc(), the best idea is to keep the same interface.
You cannot both make the interface use void * like that, and have it compute the required size using sizeof, since you explicitly drop the type information when you go void.
So, if you want to drop the size from the call you have to encode it in the function itself, i.e. specialize it:
That said... It doesn't make much sense to write the function like that. Passing a pointer to an actual object is not needed when all you want is to know the sizeof of an object type.thanks for the answers I think I should do it like this
but it is always 0. I enabled the irqs in the vop register but nothing happens. 
The problem is the result is continous so I'm not sure how to process it until I get End,0.Read single characters and buffer then into a line.
Assuming lines are separated by the classic CR,LF combination ("\r\n"), wait until the incoming character is a line-feed ('\n'), since that signifies the end of a line.
Analyze the line, to see if it contains the significant text, i.e. if strstr(line, "\"FOTA\",\"END\",0") is non-NULL.
That should get you along the way. There will be some brittleness that can be improved by more advanced code, i.e. the above strstr() will fail if there is an extra space in the output but that might be OK. You should also of course have limits in place for line length to protect against buffer overflow, a time-out is often handy, and so on.
The above is (as should be obvious, hopefully) 100% untested.How to get IMEI number by C++ or C in Android?I want to find a pure C/C++ way(not jni) to get my Android Device's IMEI numbers !
Does ndk-toolchains have such api to get IMEI numbers ? Is correct this delete operation from a dynamic array? How to fix memory? I have a dynamic array of strings, for example "123", "231" etc.
Next I need to delete a particular array string. For the deletion I used the normal technique used for static arrays, that is to move all the elements to the left by one position, in order to overwrite the deleted element. But since the array is dynamic, how do I fix the memory? That is, to decrement the memory this array is using? Here is my code:
If previously there were allocated array_size elements then using the index array_size results in accessing memory beyond the allocated array.
it is unclear why you are using the function strstr instead of the function strcmp.
has to be moved from the outer for loop. Moreover this statement
has to be moved from this inner loop. Within the loop it does not make a sense because for each iteration of the loop the variable array_size is decremented.
invokes undefined behavior due to the index expression k + 1 when k is equal to array_size - 1 because in this case the index expression is equal to array_size that is not a valid index for the array containing array_size elements.
Instead of the loop you could use the function memmove and then the function realloc to decrease the allocated memory due to removing an element from the array.How do bit fields actually work? and in what case bit padding happens?I was recently introduced to bit fields. I have a following union.
 the idea is to copy the data stream coming from external device which is 16 bytes individual byte values and then use the bit fielded structure to access particular information.
But I was not able to do it after debugging I found out that the size of union packetDecode ended up being 20 and not 16 as expected because packetsArrived is holding 20bytes . Why is this happening? and how to avoid this padding?
EDIT: I know one solution that is to use attribute padding but sadly i cannot use inline function in my project.If you want to have it packed:
Group fields into types they fully fit.
Do not use bool as the type of the bitfield.
The usage and effect of #pragma pack is explained very good in the answer of this post: #pragma pack effect6.7.2.1 Structure and union specifiers
A bit-field shall have a type that is a qualified or unqualified version of _Bool, signed int, unsigned int, or some other implementation-defined type. It is
An implementation may allocate any addressable storage unit large enough to hold a bitfield. If enough space remains, a bit-field that immediately follows another bit-field in a
structure shall be packed into adjacent bits of the same unit. If insufficient space remains, whether a bit-field that does not fit is put into the next unit or overlaps adjacent units is implementation-defined. The order of allocation of bit-fields within a unit (high-order to low-order or low-order to high-order) is implementation-defined. The alignment of the addressable storage unit is unspecified.
In English, what this is saying is that it's up to the implementation to map bitfields to storage, and whether bitfields are immediately adjacent to each other or whether there are gaps.  Looking at your code, var1 takes up 16 bits (two full 8-bit bytes), var2 takes up 28 bits (three and a half 8-bit bytes), and var3 takes up 8 bits.  A reasonable mapping would allocate a 2-byte storage unit for var1 and a 4-byte storage unit for var2, along with an additional storage unit to hold all or part of var3.  So the question is whether var3 spans two bytes, or whether it gets its own byte:
It's up to the implementation to decide which method to use.  Given that var3 through var6 are all 8 bits, I'd expect the implementation to allocate another 4-byte storage unit and map all four of those members to it, leaving the 4-bit gap between var2 and var3.  So yes, the resulting struct type takes up more bytes than the sum of the bits would suggest.Socket: sendto function changing data sent based on ip header length valueI am working on packet forging and sending it through a raw socket using
I have a few questions. The packet I forged (and in every guide I found online) started with the iphdr. The sendto function automatically adds the ethhdr to it. Since I'm not adding it, I cant change it.
The first question was, is there any way I can manipulate the ethhdr.
Secondly, in the iphdr, my sendto acts differently based on the value of iph->ihl. If i set it to 5 (which it normally is), it changes
Can anyone can also point out why the packet is being sent twice because I only have the sendto function once in the script.How to arrange the data of a .txt file for correspond with each value of the other data in CMy problem is this I have a txt file name file.txt with the data. I need to input this for do some calculations,this how the code run:
This is the data given in the file. So for example  if I arrange Subject_A column in ascending order. Column Name and Subject_B Not arrange  corresponding with Subject_A, this how the code continue:
And here is my problem, the first one is 22.5 and corresponds to Raymond ( in the .txt given see above ) and the note B 75 and in the program I get it is Joan with the note of 22.5 and 85 in the b. Because I only order A and the rest of the data is not corresponding. Each student has to correspond with her grade in the subject.
This is my code for order subject A but not for order each row with each student correspondent:
After that, you can sort the array of structs by subject A and all related data will change with it too. Problem reading accented characters from a txt file I have an assigment, where I have to find the frequency of each characters in a text file, the problem is that my first lenguaje is spanish so the text fila has accented characters like "á" and I have to count "á" like "a", my code is :
But I found that my code read "á" like a multicharacter so c takes three values 195,161,10 and not 160, what can I do?what can I do?
Commenters already noted that your text file is UTF-8 (and not extended ASCII) encoded, and gave a link how to read the multibyte characters. Now, in order to sum up the occurrences of each letter regardless of diacritics, we can take advantage of a locale where the collating position of the several variants of a letter is the same, e. g. a Spanish locale - coincidentally, since you say your first lenguaje is spanish, such might already be your environment, but you can also explicitly use es_ES.UTF-8 or similar. This way we can identify which letters belong together without the tedious task of searching through code tables. Here's an accordingly modified version of your program:
It prints the counts of all the letters and thereafter of other characters and the total count. Note that the total number is smaller than the file length if there are multibyte characters in the file.struct pointer can contain member string of size known at compile time plus function can be changed to accomodate any type of struct usng void pointerI have created a simple program. basically I created struct pointer in main and two functions. One function is simply allocating space for ads->title which is char array. Assume at compile time I don't know the sizeof title, the second function is allocating memory for struct so this function can take any type of struct and not just single struct type. But when I compile the program with -Wall Wextra -Werror   I get plenty of errors like this
And similar for get_alloc_single_struct().Using "make all" results in Relocations in generic ELF (EM: 62)I have a C project that I am trying to compile using a Makefile. The project has worked for me before on other machines. However, on this particular one, I keep on getting this error sequence:
Relocations in generic ELF (EM: 62)
error adding symbols: File in wrong format
I believe this may be related to the object linker that is on my machine, but I'm not sure how to go about fixing it. I tried re-installing gcc, but that had no effect either.How to detect the end of file using fread() then finish the loop when reading binary file? (Do not use feof) - C languageI am writing a code which reads a binary file, read each struct fields seperatly, prints out the results, then stop when the file reading reaches the end.
FYI - The binary file contains multiple records with same struct fields
I could figure out how to do it using feof.
but, I would like to run this code using only fread() function(No feof).
I was told to find fread return value to detect the end of the file but I am struggling how to do it.
Because you ran into some trouble if "exit" is nested, and you don't know the position in source. So, good idea is, to "strace", and debug, before you deploy your work.OpenGL 3.1 with SDL2 context fails to output anything on screenI am trying to get a simple demo of OpenGL working with SDL2. I am using MacOS Big Sur 11.3.1, my SDL version is 2.0.16, and my attempted OpenGL version is 3.1.
Everything seems to work fine at first, given that SDL is initialized successfully, the SDL window is not null, and the OpenGL context is not null either. But when trying to print out the vendor name, renderer name, and version name of OpenGL, all of the strings are null:
This also explains why nothing appears on the window. I have followed plenty of tutorials that go over using SDL2 with OpenGL, but none of them have worked for me.
If anyone knows what is going on, please let me know; I am very confused. My code is below.
Of course, I can simply use while statement and read recursively until it meets EOF, but that is not what I want. I just want to read one whole line per each time I read from file.
Thank you very much.fgets() is the most convenient standard library function for reading files one line at a time.  GNU getline() is even more convenient, but it is non-standard.
If you want to use scanf(), however, then you can do so by using the [ field descriptor instead of s:
Note the use of an explicit field width to protect against overrunning the bounds of lineContent in the event that a long line is encountered.  Note also that the [ descriptor differs from s in that [ does not skip leading whitespace.  If preserving leading whitespace is important to you, then scanf with an s field is a non-starter.
The getchar() reads the terminating newline, presuming that there is one, and that scanf() did not read 99 characters without reaching the end of the line.If you want to read line by line, then use fgets() or getline() (available on POSIX systems) instead of scanf(). scanf() stops at first whitespace (or matching failure) for %s.Why the C++ linker doesn't complain about missing definitions of theses functions?I have written this code:
I compiled print.cxx using gcc which doesn't define the C++ version print(double) and print(std::string). So I get print.o that contains only the definition of the C version of print().
When I used G++ to compile and build the program I passed print.o to it along with the source file main.cxx. It  produces the executable and works fine but inside main.cxx I called the C++ versions of print (print(double) and print(std::string)) and these ones are not defined in prnint.o because it has been compiled using GCC and because of the macro __cplusplus (conditional compilation). So how come that the linker doesn't complain about missing definitions of those functions?? Thank you!I compiled print.cxx using gcc which doesn't define the C++ version...
Not quite. gcc and g++ both invoke the same compiler suite. And the suite has a set of file extensions it automatically recognizes as either C or C++. Your *.cxx files were all compiled as C++, which is the default behavior for that extension.
You can use the -x option to override the default behavior.Automatic file buffer flushing when file opened by another program *only if* other program not already running (macOS)I've run into a weird behavior on macOS that I started investigating due to an accidental race condition that would occur when telling the OS to open an RTF file I'd just processed, but hadn't closed or explicitly flushed.
If the file handler (Word, TextEdit, whatever) was not already open, then calling system("open test.rtf") would open the file just fine and the file would be complete.
However, if the file handler was already open, then calling system("open test.rtf") would result in an error message that the file was corrupted or truncated (because the buffers weren't completely flushed).
The obvious fix is to fflush() and/or fclose() my file before opening it. However, I am more interested in the underlying interaction between my program's runtime and macOS. My question is this: how and why does the file handler's running/not-running state affect whether my buffer is flushed?
(It isn't simply a matter of the time it takes to open the program -- I added a sleep delay in the version that doesn't explicitly flush the buffers and it makes no difference.)
I have verified that closing the file in a child of fork() will result in the output buffer being flushed. The following will work consistently:
However, there is one major problem with my theory: While the fd table could potentially carry across fork() and exec() all day long, process memory, including the FILE*, will be destroyed when exec() overwrites the image.
After pursuing this further, I found that opening a Cocoa file handler causes launchd to launch /sbin/filecoordinationd, a daemon to "coordinate access to files." https://www.unix.com/man-page/osx/8/filecoordinationd/. And, indeed, TextEdit registers as an NSFilePresenterProxy. macOS has an entire underlying file access regime to watch for file changes and make sure files accessed by different processes are kept in a good state. It would make sense that, once TextEdit registers as an NSFilePresenter, invoking /sbin/filecoordinationd, the daemon would ensure any buffers it knew were already open would get to a good state.
But how would it do that with my program, which doesn't use Cocoa and isn't registered as an NSFile-anything? The most likely answer would be that the mechanics of file coordination for NS-classes is implemented in libSystem.dylib, which also serves as the system C library. The macOS system C library likely comes with the ability baked-in to have the operating system make process runtime buffers flush.
So why doesn't it do this when the Cocoa application is already running? It probably doesn't know that it should. If TextEdit didn't open the file, and the process with the file open doesn't register with NSFile..., and TextEdit doesn't inherit a file descriptor table, nothing in the Cocoa ecosystem would have any idea that it should tell /sbin/filecoordinationd to make sure output buffers to the file are flushed.
This seems like the best working theory and as close as I'm going to get to an answer without input from a macOS engineer or access to the /usr/bin/open and /sbin/filecoordinationd source code.What is GCC's un-optimized asm doing to add two short ints in assembly?In this code example
I don't understand what's going on in lines 5 to 8 and then 10 to 14. I imagine it's a way to manipulate short int, but I'd like to better understand what each instruction is doing when compared to its C codeCast vs. Implicit conversion in CI was reading a book about secure coding in C and a point where i got lost is the difference between a cast and implicit conversion.
I have found answers on Google but they're all concerning C# or even C++ but not plain C , so could anyone please explain what's the difference between doing (int) a-b  and assigning to another variable like this int c = a - b
Thanks in advance .Conversions can be either explicit or implicit. An explicit conversion is specified by a cast operator. A cast operator is a type name in parentheses preceding the expression to be converted. (You'll sometimes see the phrase "implicit cast". There's no such thing in C.)
For a given source and target type, an implicit conversion performs the same operation that a cast would perform. Some conversions, particularly most pointer conversions, are not performed implicitly and can only be done with a cast.
In a simple assignment the right operand is implicitly converted to the type of the left operand. The same thing happens when passing an argument to a function, in an initializer, and when executing a return statement.
When an operation like + is applied to operands of different arithmetic types, they are converted to a common type via a rather complicated set of rules.
Integer types narrower than int are implicitly promoted to int or to unsigned int in many contexts.
For most binary operators, such as +, the two operands are converted to a common type using the usual arithmetic conversions.
For most unary operands, the operand is converted using the integer promotions. This promotes any type narrower than int to int at least (with some technical details).
Assignments convert the right operand to the type of the left operand (without qualifiers or the atomic property).
An lvalue (a reference to an object, that is, a value stored in memory) is converted to the stored value, except when the lvalue is being used to modify the object or as the operand of sizeof or unary & or the left operand of .
An array is converted to a pointer to its first element except when it is the operand of sizeof, is the operand of unary &, or is a string literal used to initialize an array.
Arguments in function calls are converted to the type of the parameter (if there is a function prototype and the argument does not correspond to a ... part) or according to the default argument promotions.
In a return statement, the value is converted to the type returned by the function.
In case labels, the constant in the label is converted to the promoted type of the expression in the switch statement.
The usual arithmetic conversions convert both b and a to int.
The resulting values are subtracted.
The result is converted to int. (Since it is already an int, there is no change).
The result is used as the initial value of c.
The assignment acts as a natural border; but your examples are not so clear, especially with %u and (int) cast.
One floating literal is enough to "infect" the division with fractions.
Conversions is an own chapter between "Concepts" and "Lexical Elements". It gives the rules for ordinary operators and announces additional rules for the other operators in the main chapter.
I mean his comment under OP. His comment here I also agree with. I wanted to address the two "presumably" in OP. And the direct A to title Q: Difference is...
Casts can and should be avoided, mostly; implicit conversions happen all the time, sometimes even the way you intend.C++ primer 5th ed. external linkage and function overloadingI have this from C++ primer 5th edition: External Linkage:
If one function among a set of overloaded functions is a C function, the other functions must all be C++ functions:
The C version of calc can be called from C programs and from C++ programs. The additional functions are C++ functions with class parameters that can be called only from C++ programs. The order of the declarations is not significant.
It works just fine but am I correct about my guesses and implementing this code?

What is the point in extern in the C++ versions (calc(const SmallInt&) and calc(const BigNum&)) as long as they cannot be compiled with a C compiler? Thank you so much!No, you can define all the functions in CPP source files, and call them from C (easily, if they are declared as having C linkage).
One source file, print.cxx, can have the implementation (function bodies) for all three functions.  It is compiled as C++, and the implementation of double calc(double) can certainly use C++ to do its work.
A C program can be linked with that .o file, and call calc(double).
It can be useful to make C-callable API for a C++ library, and you can see that that must be part of the C++ source in order to work.
When you write extern "C", you are saying you will support calling that function from a C source file.  It does not mean that the function is itself written in C.When we talking about "C linkage", in fact we just care about header files. Making the function signature "extern C" in the header files is enough for foreign language (like rust/go) to call it.
And the so-called "C linkage" has a counterpart called "C++ linkage". The later has parameter types in the signature, but the former is just plain simple function name.
the question is: is it somehow possible to point some or all of them to the same implementation without using additional instructions in the compiled program, i.e. somehow instruct compiler or linker where to send function calls. Particularly speaking of GCC.
If it is, it would be more convenient to develop and integrate libraries...
But note that you will have to make sure the calling convention is the same. That should be pretty much obvious as otherwise, there would have to be some conversion code (still, in many cases the wrapper boils down to a few instructions ending with a JMP [or equivalent; unless you adjust return value or likewise], that shouldn’t add much to the trampolines used for linking libraries together).
However, if you really care of performance, you may consider using link-time optimization. It is now supported by GCC; search for -flto in the docs. (in a nutshell: pass -flto to GCC both while compiling and linking)C programming sqrt function#include <math.h> 
This code does not work because it is taking the square root of a variable. If you change the sqrt(x), to sqrt(20.0), the code works just fine, why? Please explain.
Also, how do I get the square root of the variable (which is what I really need)?
For the above code, the output seems to be 0.00 but when we try to print the variable f the output is 3.00 with 4 blank spaces before it.Could someone tell me why?Undefined Reference to 'blink'I am making an .img for the RPI-4 etc. I have a main init.c file that transforms into a binary and to an img.
Now I want to incorporate another .c file named 'src/dev-gpio.c'. This file contains a blink() function that gets called in init.c's main loop.
How would I go about adding this dev-gpio.c file to makefile so my init.c can see the blink() function? No matter what I do I get undefined reference to blink() in my init.c.Sometimes I overthink things..
Added a rule for the second .c file 'dev-gpio.c' and added this to the linker rule up above as well as after the 'start' command.As I understand it, you now have a rule like this:
Further refinements are possible, but that's enough for now.How to open file with posix_spawn on Linux-ubuntu?I'm trying to use posix_spawn() function in cpp code. I want to use it for my 'cron' project to run the file on provided time.
Unfortunately the file is not being run (don't see the application) but the process starts and posix_spawn() doesn't return 0 so there was no failure.
It works fine after re-starting of the Virtual Machine. Not sure what caused the issue.libcurl function symbols not found in x86_64 architectureim trying to make a libcurl program that connects to an https website but when i use the functions like curl_easy_setopt(); the terminal says that the symbols are invalid in x86_64 architecture. heres the code:
When creating a vfs using the tcl api how do you get the current filesystem in Tcl_Filesystem.pathInFilesystemProc
How do I, in inFsProc get back the struct I passed into Tcl_FSRegister?
As you can see, the clientData there is really just being used as a marker so the code knows whether to do one-time initialisation.
To discover what the mount mapping is, you'll need to keep internal structures. You're strongly recommended to make the Tcl_Filesystem structure instance itself be global (or rather static at file scope) in your code.How would I use a null terminator in a char array so when I use fgets for input, it does not make a new line without using string libraries?I know I essentially need to replace the "\n" with a "\0", but how would I access the array to incorporate this?  I can not use string.h library or any other libraries.
Changing address contained by pointer using function If I've declared a pointer p as int *p; in main module, I can change the address contained by p by assigning p=&a; where a is another integer variable already declared.
I now want to change the address by using a function as::
the address content is unchanged. What's wrong with using a function for same task?In C, functions arguments are passed by value. Thus a copy is made of your argument and the change is made to that copy, not the actual pointer object that you are expecting to see modified. You will need to change your function to accept a pointer-to-pointer argument and make the change to the dereferenced argument if you want to do this.
If you have the luxury of using C++ an alternative way would be to change the function to accept a reference to a pointer.In C, variables are passed by value - a copy of the pointer is passed to the function. Use another pointer to the pointer instead:
If you want to alter the content of a variable in a function in C, pointer is a kinda variable as well, you have to pass it by pointer or indirect reference by using always & address and * dereference operators. I mean * operator is always used and preceded when changing the value of a variable.
This won't change the actual value ofp because the q in function is local to that and change in that function will not reflect in main so pass the address of p instead of passing p by value
For a primitive data type such as an int, the double pointers are not necessary. You can write directly into the address where the int is stored, treating its address as a pointer in the function being called. This is unlike a char array ("string") where the size of what is pointed to is variable and you must therefore use another level of indirection when changing it from within a called function. Try this: 
Multiplication always results in 0 despite using the float data type [duplicate]This question already has answers here:When I run the code, entering values more than 250000, I still get 0 as my tax output, even though I have used the float data type.In the expression 5 / 100 * income, the multiplication operator * and division operator / have equal precedence and group from left to right.  So it parses as (5 / 100) * income
The subexpression 5 / 100 has integer arguments to the division operator, so the result is truncated to an integer.  This results in 0.
If you change either operand (or both) to a floating point constant, i.e. 5.0 / 100, 5 / 100.0, or 5.0 / 100.0, then floating point division will occur and you'll get the expected result.
20 / 100 and 30 / 100 have the same problem, so change those to 20.0 / 100 and 30.0 / 100 respectively.
Or get rid of the division entirely and use the constants 0.05, 0.2, and 0.3.GCC compiler on Jailbroken AppleTV compiling errorOk so I think this is probably out of the ballpark for most people here (including me :P ) but here's my problem...
I am trying to get together a basic compiling toolchain for an AppleTV 3rd gen. After a very long time of digging through archives and source code I got a decent set of tools together. (csu, gdb, gcc, headfile, ldid, real-libgcc!, make, odcctools, uuid, file, rsync, autoconf, gawk, python, coreutils, inetutils, git, less, nano, gettext) and while most of them are outdated they still operate decently. All except for gcc. Great, eh? So my problem is whenever I compile ANY C code, even something as simple as
it will always return Killed: 9, I don't understand why it would do this but I do know that it means the program was killed with the signal 9 which terminates a process instantly no matter what. However I am very new to C in general and any help would be appreciated.
How is it possible that it sets the return value and this value is pointer to CustomDraw() and after it it returns true so it returns 2 values?
Where does DialogBox() exactly return values?  Are these values processed further, or they are just skipped?
How is it possible if it sets the return value that CustomDraw(LPARAM lParam)) gets called more than one time? I mean, how does SetWindowLong(hWnd, DWL_MSGRESULT(LONG)CustomDraw(lParam)); make it to call so many times, how it needs to get the appropriate message?
What's the difference between return SetWindowLong(...) and between return pointer to custom draw?
The value your application can return depends on the current drawing stage. The dw Draw Stage member of the associated NMCUSTOMDRAW structure holds a value that specifies the drawing stage. You must return one of the following values.
If this message is handled in a dialog procedure, you must set the return value as part of the window data before returning TRUE. For more information, see DialogProc.
Typically, the dialog box procedure should return TRUE if it processed the message, and FALSE if it did not. If the dialog box procedure returns FALSE, the dialog manager performs the default dialog operation in response to the message.
If the dialog box procedure processes a message that requires a specific return value, the dialog box procedure should set the desired return value by calling SetWindowLong(hwndDlg, DWL_MSGRESULT, lResult) immediately before returning TRUE. Note that you must call SetWindowLong immediately before returning TRUE; doing so earlier may result in the DWL_MSGRESULT value being overwritten by a nested dialog box message.
What do these hardcoded bytes means? What if I pass NULL? What if I pass random bytes? What should I pass? Should it be lap of the local device?
I tried passing NULL, random bytes and LAP of my local device. I see no difference in behavior but I assume it's not there for nothing.Does _mm_stream_load_si128 (movntdqa) modify the memory its argument points to?_mm_stream_load_si128 is declared as
Does the former modify the contents of what mem_addr points to? If not, what's the motivation for the non-const declaration?I think it is declared this way for no reason. See _mm256_stream_load_si256 and _mm512_stream_load_si512 that are the same for wider operand, they take const argument.
Now, I can get the linker successfully do its job by adding "libnosys.a" to the GROUP statement. That's where it gets confusing for me. Why do these new stubs in libnosys.a are needed only on Linux? How and where are they defined in Windows? What am I missing?
GCC version on my Windows and Linux are 8.3.1 and 10.2.1, respectively, as they come bundled with different versions of MCUXpresso.
Trying to make my first C-program which converts seconds into weeks + days + hours + minutes + seconds [closed]Closed. 
This is the language C and as the title says I am trying to make it so that the users put in seconds and that gets converted to weeks, days, hours, minutes and seconds like this:
When I try compiling this, it just prints out 70019 in all the fields regarding of input - I suppose this is the last memory used? So obviously something is wrong, but I ain't good enough to figure it out :/So obviously something is wrong, but I ain't good enough to figure it out :/
The big mistake is not using a good compiler with all warnings enabled.
My compilation had 4 warnings.  Save time, be more productive.  Enable all warnings.