Cannot display all the element of my array in C?
Segmentation fault (core dumped) in C code.
LUMBER JACK question using domino effect to maximize the profit 
Resize image without using cairo_surface_set_device_scale 
how to uninstall MinGW and make cygwin 'make' as deafult make program with gcc 3.8.1 How to uninstall MinGW?
Getting exit status of terminated process I'm trying to get the exit status and of each process whether it returned 1 or 0 and get the sum of each (number of 1s and number of 0s). 
specific number of integers My requirement is to print x numbers of prime integer. So my code starts off by asking user to input a number, e.g. 7, I want it to produce 7 prime numbers.
How it calculate size of array using pointer to array?
Get Stuck when calling function in main function I'm a beginner in writing C language code. When i call a function into main function, my code gets stuck. When i debug my code, it is free of error but when i run it, it is stuck. I have no idea.Can i know why? How should i solve it? 
How to call C++ function from C?
determine pointer length in a typedef struct [duplicate] How to determine pointer length in a typedef struct?
Using graphics.h or the Turbo-C compiler on a Mac
Thread locking a (possible) destoyed mutex I have 2 thread-safe lists (same type), where each node has a mutex (I know that it's not the optimal solution, but that's what I was asked to do).
How do I request characters from a user, and then print the size of the characters?
How to put variable on nested loop?
Muxing video H264 and data with mpegtsmux Gtsreamer I would like to mux H264 video and data (like a buffer or file) with mpegtsmux.
Will EXECVP system call supports IO redirections
How does a compiler choose which function to link? 
What are the rules about using an underscore in a C identifier?
Reboot required to recover from error by `clBuildProgram`?
Pointers On C exercises 6.18-2, my solution does not work 
Pthread heap buffer overflow I tried to create a multithread server using pthread. The compiling failed and gave a heap buffer overflow error.
Structures and memory management, C I'm trying to understand some things about structures and memory management. 
How to impelment custom I/O code with cryptlib?
Linux+C : fork() and waitpid() acting funny I'm taking an OS undergrad course, and I'm unable to correctly do a lab practical question that came last year in exams. 
GNU readline library handle EOFi use readline library (GNU) to show a prompt and get datas
Saving getline() output to an external array The external array srclns should keep each read line from a text file. But reading it's content afterwards seems like read lines are empty strings. What am I missing in the code below?
Closing thread pool down after all work items are complete 
Is there a way to map a certain type of data from all source files in a directory to a memory section in a linker command file without being explicit?
:( encrypts "a" as "b" using 1 as key expected "ciphertext: b\...", not "plaintext: a\..."
Why am i not able to get output from pipefd[0] and not getting printed? 
fopen is freezing the program I'm making a small C program to count the number of lines of a file but every time I compile and run it in my terminal, the program is freezing (not showing any error, but the program can't read the next inscrutions)
I don't understand the behavior of fonts in X windows Given the sample program
Getting some stuff in output of the C program
Reasons for "Segmentation fault (core dumped)" when using Python extension and FFmpeg I want to write a Python C extension that includes a function convert Video() that converts a video from one format to another making use of FFmpeg 3.4.8 (the libav* libaries). 
Create a gst pad from a static pad template [GStreamer pipeline] 
How can we have nested structures in C?
Segmentation fault at 'FeedForward()'
trouble in c with characters issue Closed.
directing file output to the console 
Unexpected Output- long double
Delete N nodes after M nodes in Linked list L 
can't read argv[2] from main function in C I am trying to run java jar using system() function from stdlib.h but I can't print argv[2]
debugging problems with vscode and some misunderstandings about call by reference in C
Strange behaviour in C programming The program bellow is supposed to do two things. First is to reverse a string and the second is to find in that string the most and the least seen character.
What can I use for input conversion instead of scanf?
Why does my Srand() never chooses 2 when i choose 1?
functions like gethostbyname() and getlogin_r() stopping runtime execution on remote debugging
How to detect that a C/C++ file is using windows specific stuff 
scanf( ) is not taking input in terminal
Why isn't internal pull-down resistor working on STM32F411CEU6 (Black Pill Board)?
Cross-compiling older version of gcc (4.8.2) on Ubuntu 14.04 fails in configure script 
Self Referenced Class in Java 
How to use bit-level operations to convert single-precision floating-point numbers to integers
A program using dynamic memory allocation in c
Can you create an array of Structure inside of another structure in C language?
In Visual GDB, how to set to break when a variable is changed?
How to modify a pcap file in C?
How to include .cfg file path for libconfig?
Running C/C++ code with VS code always throw "exited with code=1 in 0.123 seconds"
Why am I getting segmentation fault using strcmp?
copying array vs copying int cost and performance in c
swapping values in c to reverse array but the array/memory blocks remain unchanged I just wanted to reverse the array.
How can I read a row of numbers from a .txt file in c?
Are there any advantages/disadvantages of using a for loop incrementing over an integer versus character pointer?
Reading variable-sized structs into a common buffer and parsing the bytes accordingly
Why is there a difference between these 2 results?
How can I convert virtual address from user space to physical address?
Entirely threadsafe, re-entrant libc On this page of the Open Group specification on POSIX, it enumerates a list of C standard library functions that need not be thread safe, but can be if the library programmer decides so. Is there any reasoning behind these specific functions not needing to be thread safe?
Sending a UDP broadcast is detected by TCP dump as leaving Open WRT router, but not by Wireshark on the receiving computer
How are raw (hex) bitmap data created and is it possible to view them without a different program?
Drawing top line in viewport using GL3 
why do i not get the 3 tries in the gussing game?
why assigning Value to int member of structure causing segmentation fault?
How do I fix collect2 error while compiling an old MUD?
Dynamic char array with null terminationi wanted to create a function that can dynamically append a char array
How I can set Japanese language at VS Code?
\b is not working. \\ is givin the wrong output. Why putchar() behave differenlty in while scope than in if clause?
how to set canon EDSDK - Contrast not support error
Resizing windows in curses
How do I fix conflicting types for 'gettimeofday' when compiling a MUD?
Why does GTK 4 report "assertion 'GTK_IS_WIDGET (widget)' failed"?
How to make types configurable with preprocessor directives in C?
Update dwm status string from another thread
how to divide two intengers and get a result with decimal numbers?
Binary search issue in cIf i entered  the 4th index element in x it runs correctly, if i entered other elements in the array it returns -1
What is the use of global pointer in a structure in C
What is an undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error and how do I fix it?
Why my conversion specifiers doesn't work properly in C
Syntax of printf in C
How do I write a short C program that accepts words and prints them?
I couldn't read text section from binary using capstone library
How does select() monitor without using cpu cycles to poll
Whats the meaning of this C?
Couchbase C SDK LCB_ERR_TIMEOUT (201) Error issueI was originally having issues with getting authentication errors when trying to do update a bucket. I then updated the server to a more up to date Couchbase server. Now I keep getting timeout errors, specifically LCB_ERR_TIMEOUT (201) when trying to do upsert into the bucket. Is there a possible issue in network or am I doing something wrong in code?
How to create a custom Preprocessor with Snort?
Too many arguments and char[22] errors in C I'm getting 2 errors at the end of this code: 1 - Too many arguments in function call and Expression must have struct or union type but it has type "char*", respectively. Where did I go wrong?
how to check input data is correct or not in c
Profiling embedded software using Gprof in Eclipse I am trying to run Gprof in Eclipse IDE in order to profile my embedded software, that runs over linux.
Readability, why won't Coleman-Liau index formula work when I plugin words, letters, and sentences?
Why did coder assign value of struct pointer to a static struct?
After entering any value of p,r,n. I am getting SI=0 onlyAfter entering any value of p,r,n. I am getting SI=0 only.
program goes in infinite loop when eof is used Below Program is compiled successfully with no error but it goes in Infinite Loop.
mysql_stmt_bind_result() fails if the statement includes a RETURNING clause
How to remove a word from text file in C program?
Bison nonterminal useless in grammar, rule useless in parser
Is it thread safe to call socket send to different sockets from different threads?
How to hook memory I/O in windows kernel mode?
Dequeuing Duplicates I am having a problem. 
Generate & Comparing Loop using Functions in array - C Programming I'm new to c programming. Please teach me and help me to simplify this.
Not able read from input output files in Sublime Text 3
How can I convert a string of binary numbers into characters in C (each character has to have a nibble)?
Right inputs but incorrect output when reading though a file in C
Closing FTDI Comm port with Close Handle() takes a lot of time I'm working in a C/C++ program that communicates with a RS232 device.
Is there any time.h function to get the date 14 days?
Why I can't print 0 with %7.d or other %x.d in C Can someone help me in printing 0 with %x.d i.e. %1.d, %2.d, %3.d, etc.
How do i port my application across the different viewports
Sample program in C Studio  
Concatenating two strings but getting null. please pont me error in this I am trying to copy two strings to a new pointer. this is to concatenate string pointer with sub pointer. Trying to make the output in new pointer str. what is wrong in this?
i am trying to read from a file and print in another file the code does not work
utf-8 Codification, strange characters, GUI doesn't work I am developing a MQTT app that takes some values through a board and bring it to a GUI. 
address boundary error while sorting struct with qsort in c
Printing a value to console avoiding the usage of standard libraries I'm faced with the problem of printing (in console) a value without using any library. 
keypad function return wrong number in Scan
why my answer is only partially accepted in a hackerearth practice problem
Merge sort algorithm in ANSI C I'm learning ANSI C and for a class I have to implement a merge sort algorithm in it. ​I'm following the book's guide. But, for some reason I can't have it working.
sorting an array such that absolute values are sorted and positive values are printed before negative valuesfor the given code
gtk4 transparent drawing area
\v Vertical tab character not working in C (showing male gender symbol) Does anybody know why whenever I input \v, it outputs the male gender symbol?
Print all inputted number by the user in C 
Signal safety of __sync_fetch_and_add() I have a program that accepts socket clients and forks a child process.
limited input from user in struct help please this doesnt work properly
do constant calculations in #define consume resources?
Trying to parse string into struct members
Why is my loop stopping at the first argument (char of argv) in C?
How to save data for user log in/ register using a hash table?
getting logical error as Stack is empty , what is the error?
Is it possible to convert struct type array to linkedlist in C/C++?
Why the do while loop is not working properly here?
Trying to pass an array with variable size and it's not working properly
stopping add Ch() from over writing frollowing chars (ncurses, c) I working on a basic ncurses program and ran across this issue.
GtkComboBox with entry causes `gtk_entry_set_text: assertion 'text != NULL' failed` I'm trying to write a ComboBox with entry, containing Text with a list store.
Threads Share local variable?
STM32 linkerscript initialization sections, are they needed when using C?
re-declaring a global variable after its definition in C
Undefined behaviour reading lines from a file I'm getting some odd behaviour when I use this function to read in the contents of a file then split it into individual lines using a double pointer. 
initializing a tree in c i am trying to initialize a tree data structure but everytime i invoke initTree(); my program terminates without any output my initTree():
Process that reads redirected output and redirects its output to the next child and so on
Does [DllImport] imports whole DLL lib each time?
When char array is passed to a method, the array looses its valueI have method which accepts "constant char*" as a parameter. But when I pass the below array to the method "*SendUartMessage(int uartFd, const char dataToSend)**" only first two hexadecimal values are showing inside the method in the parameter. To be precise as the third value is zero 0x00, it blocks the other values pass inside the method. Can any one provide solution to pass all the array value inside the method.
Openss l failed EVP CIPHER I want to use OpenSSL1.1.1k to construct an sm4 cmodel program.
Is (a = 0, a) + (a =1, a) undefined behaviour for int a?
key-repetition for multiple keys in cI was wondering if it was possible to change the key repetition behaviour(on Linux) in such a way that instead of it starting to spam one key as input it goes through all the pressed keys instead (perhaps system("something")?
Why did we allocate memory for matrix with double pointers?
I can not use auxiliary functions from zephyr ( tty.h) file I am building a project and I have the board stm nucleo_l496zg. All i want to do is to use the drivers from the board in order to communicate the board after west flash with minicom, it is a simple string transfer and response program. 
How to assign a pointer to a list and print it out in c?
Linux device driver not behaving as expected I am trying to write a simple device driver.
C error handling: if error return int code else value?
is there a way to make this program even faster?
How can I concatenate a string and a variable which is types of int?
Crashing when using free in the incorrect way 
JSON Serialization to buffer (C language) When I use the function json_serialize_to_string in library parson, the Serializated buffer always has error.
Get File Attributes W causes Access violation reading location x (GetLastError returns 8) I am currently trying to implement a program that loads multiple files into memory, for further processing. 
How to switch the focused window with X lib
C Code to send commands to a specified console I got a problem and no nothing on the whole internet has proven a solution.
FIFO connected both sides in C
Where is the source of imprecise calculation in the assembler code of gcc -Ofast compared with -O3?
Why are same addresses sent into function?
open syscall mode argument number confusion On x64, ubuntu 20 machine, I wrote a simple C program
what is the point of set dev/null to standard out in a child process 
Place macros in a library or convert them to functions?
Efficient Embedded Fixed Point 2x2 Matrix Multiplication in ARM Cortex-M4 C code I am trying to implement a VERY efficient 2x2 matrix multiplication in C code for operation in an ARM Cortex-M4.
Segfault when storing reg to var in section
STM32 cube IDE LED not blinking 
How to extract numbers inidvidually on a date then storing it into an array - C Language
Why is the value of (tete->val)=0 And Not 1823
Why I can't use printk() to print string to the console I am trying to add some system interface made by myself to Linux-0.11 and using bochs to debug the interface.
what does "undefined reference to `pow' " mean? 
Memcheck, a memory error detector with valgrind I have a little project I need to submit, but I get an error with valgrind I need help with.
How can I use the same address in a C program that will be the same every time I restart it 
gtk_label_set_text: assertion 'GTK_IS_LABEL (label)' failed when attempting to change label text in GTK+3 C
Array only deletes half of the duplicated values 
Why redefining a structure with same name, contain values of the 1st structure, even if the 2nd structure is declared after the first is destroyed? 
Setting the location of the linux kerne l header files during C program compilationI am looking to compile a C code (using gcc) that is defining header files as
Create an array of null-terminated strings from standard input
open ssl AES CTR send output in C I need to send an encrypted data through a socket in C.
Reading non-ascii characters from a file in C I have a file, foo. 
POSIX -- what are intended use cases for termios members?
Tracking calls of Windows RNG APIs inplemented in C program
Please help me to remove a blank line from the filechar temp[100];
How can I use the Win32 toolbar standard bitmaps outside of a toolbar?
Out-of-source build with yacc/bison and tab.h best practice I'm trying to use out-of-source builds with a project using GNU bison & flex for parsing and lexing.
How can I keep a program from ending in C 
How to count identical 1 kb blocks of 2 files in c?
Why is my C program continuously run forever without the usage of loop?
Embeded spv shaders throws error while running program
Use mmap to map a single file multiple times. Will the changes be applied to all locations?
Pass an array of pointers to function argument I am trying to construct a bus network using adjacent linked list graph data structure.
Segmentation Fault (Core Dumped) in C Program
C program outputs weird characters
How to read a binary file from the end to the start in c?
freeing SDL_Surface causes Segmentation fault (core dumped)am using sdl 1.2 for my game project i want to move my surface so 
STM32F103 blue pill - problems related to blinking led bare metalI come across a problem when trying to run this code in order to blink the built-in LED (located at PC13) on the blue pill board (STM32F103C8, ARM Cortex M3):
Dynamically allocating array with the [] operator instead of using malloc?
How can i call the number from the list that has been created?
Do I need to use `uint8_t` to do arithmetics on a `uint8_t` pointer?
Communicate two child fork processes with FIFO I made this program with pipes to communicate two processes with PIPES.  
How to access memory dynamically without using dynamic allocator include the brk, sbrk and mmap
How to avoid -nan(ind) error when using the pow function.
Send a time_t with UDP protocol I'm trying to send a time_t value over a UDP socket. 
Reducing number of function arguments by macro in C I have a quastion about C functions. Is there any possibility to do something like:
Transferring data from a C buffer to Python for plotting with Matplotlib in Visual Studio 2019 
Should I put a C++ macro guard in every header file?
C Programming - Counting signals in signal handler I am working on signals in C programming.
How to create multiple SIP call at a same time with PJSIP
Using C programming, Implement a Least Recently Used (LRU) algorithm using a proper data structure such as linked list or bitmap or hash table
organizing C libraries in Visual Studio Suppose 
Segfault when using fopen I am getting segmentation fault when I use fopen function.
Having a bad output in Arduino program i have a problem with this Arduino  program
How does C uppercase letters?
after generate the rpc files and try to compile it i get an conflict error First of all, how am I able to return a pointer from a procedure.
Manipulate second (auxiliary) mouse inputs with python Xlib or C-API on ubuntu 20.04 LTS
Conflicting types compiling a LD_PRELOAD wrapper I tried to use LD_PRELOAD to hook sprintf function 
ld: version node not found for symbol
How to write conditional statements inside a Makefile in C?
Does arrays in C takes separate memory to store the address of the first element?
How can I diagnose / get more information about this Julia error?
No memory leak, but confusing errors from valgrind when using malloc and file pointers
Why can't I write more than 2GB? I am using this code to measure the writing bandwidth of my computer.
Get_next_line : Abort when BUFFER_SIZE between 8 and 15 on MacI am currently completing my "Get_next_line" project. 
Creating a function to ask question from the user using scanf in C
C avoids cycles in type graphs by using structural equivalence for all types except records
Understanding double pointer to an array in C
(C) Dungeon game - Valgrind Conditional jump or move depends on uninitialised value(s)
after user input my if else else if loop, does nothing (CS50 pset1)
Exited segmentation fault in c I was trying to merge two stack into one but its show segmentaion error.
How can I pass a struct compound literal to a function as argument?
Too many arguments to function ‘pthread_create’As the title i am trying to figure out how I can pass in all my start routine functions arguments into my pthread, but I am not having great luck with it
Freeing memory pointed by members of a struct
SDL2 C the image is not displayedI want to create a quiz game. 
Why does the compiler completely ignore the first for loop then goes to the 2nd loop?
Everytime ctrl + z is pressed a random number is generated Moving straight to the issue, how do I make Ctrl+z do what the title states?
printing c console output to txt file I need a little help with this C code.
AVX2 set __mm256d variable to all ones I am trying to make a constant all binary ones __m256d variable.
Typecasting char * to struct * in Cchar *constant is the pointer to the head of my linked list.
Why is it considered a bad practice to omit curly braces?
C - invalid branch to/from Open MP structured block I have a code in c that counts the numbers of occurrences of specific words but I want to do it with openmp.
How can I rewrite hamming code (7, 4) to (63, 57) I have found hamming code (7, 4) I guess... but how to rewrite it to (63, 57).
Added core Dump Path to launch.json in VSCode  
strtof() function misplacing decimal place I have a string "1613894376.500012077" and I want to use strtof in order to convert to floating point 1613894376.500012077.
Making Bingo Game: How to check if element in array is duplicate and change it's value without being duplicate again to other element Our teacher wants us to make a bingo game that will generate a random bingo card. 
The included dirs in Make file are not used For using some specific constants of MPTCP such as MPTCP_ENABLED, I include "<linux/tcp.h>"in iperf_tcp.c and modify the Makefile by inserting dirs ".../include/generated/uapi" ".../include/uapi" ".../include" to support. However, after I make the project, it still has problem with iperf_tcp.c:1319:39: error: ‘MPTCP_ENABLED’ undeclared (first use in this function) 
Why int* returned from function has the correct value?
C - Freeing memory allocated with malloc I'm programming in C and have a function insert() that allocates memory with malloc(). This function is called from another function named SJF(). The SJF() function calls insert() multiple times.
The Request is not supported while trying to use Wincrypt RC4
When is it better to use smaller integer types rather than the default 32 bit?
C can I return array instead pointer and if not can I work with pointer? 
Changing Directory of STM32 Cube IDE Projects
How does Direct2D1.RenderTarget.FillOpacityMask work
Link issues with cmake/make
Why is the function initialized in the if statement?
In what logical segments of the processes do the variables exist?
How to calculate the CPU usage of a process by PID in Linux from C?
Is LONG_MAX -1 in 64bit machine?
Discovery Server in C (database with structs may be?)
Why popular programming languages like c, c++, java, python, PHP doesn't support postfix (Reverse Polish Notation) or prefix expressions? 
Expected 'float **' but argument is of type 'float (*)[3]'
forward message from a user to the other users on the server
assignement from incompatible pointer type in C I have a linked list of a struct,
Parking fee using CBeginner here. I just wanted to know how and where I went wrong with this code. I’m having problem with using the modulo for the time.  
How to encrypt/decrypt using key index in OpenSSL EVP APIs?
Strange Efficiency Decrease when Localizing a Global Variable into a Subthread
Is there any benefit from declaring variables at the beginning of a function?
why doesn't the added element get saved in the final list?
Compilation Failed when trying to access header files from other directory
Why ternary operation may be undefined Working with GNU/GCC
How would I replace the 3 above bits in brackets with the 3 bits below in C?
Why can't we directly assign the address of a 2D array to a pointer?
Making two objects in C more object-oriented First, this is merely an academic question. 
I am trying to digitally sign and verify using a github repo but can't seem to generate random number properly
Permutations and 2d arraysI want to check if three matrices A,B,C with same dimensions are permutations of each other(contain same elements with the same number of repetitions in every 2d array) and return 1 if they are and 0 if they are not. 
Callback in C without function pointers
CS50 week4 filter less, How can I get a copy of a array?
Linux Shell in C - warning: excess elements in struct initializer
Add static library czmq to C project (CMake) I am writing a project in C using the ZeroMQ library.
C bitfield with assigned value 1 shows -1
Checking return value of a function without return statement
how to set a break point malloc_error_break lldb 
getnameinfo 5 second stall for link local addresses Resolving a link address, e.g. "fe80:0:0:0:1df5:94d:4c6c:6b43" using the getnameinfo function on macOS 11.2 (Big Sur) results in a 5 second wait.
C Lion: Can't include Math.h
What is the exact work, that the getchar() is doing?
How does this array element access syntax work?
How to generate non-repeating numbers in C?
How to fix output for a simple shell
converting a string to a simple one character value in C language
How can I write a dynamic amount of lines and assign them to array in C
Why is it bad practice to declare an int in a for loop?
Is there a way to find the position of a duplicate window?
Uncrustify function pointer spacing after star
I need to find the count of even and odd primenumbers from a file. What is wrong with my code?
How do C structs wrapped in C++ classes interact when passed as a parameter of the same type as the struct?
Reading and writing in-memory data
Building a dynamic library, and linking other dynamic libraries on which it depends
Why does sizeof applied to a structure with a flexible array member not produce the allocated space?
How can i make a Make file for a GMP project
How to import Homebrew SDL2_image with CMake (Mac M1)
Object files boundaries within a binary using toplevel-reorder
How to work around compiler built-in types in C standard header files
Accessing elements of an array of integer pointers using only pointer arithmetic
No source available for "__tmainCRTStartup() at 0x4013c1"I have a problem with debugger on Eclipse.
__asm and PCLint 9.0L Error 14: Symbol 'TS_IntDisableAsm(void)' previously definedI using the PCLint-Check 9.0L for a Project and got the current Error Message during a Lint-Check on all Lint-Object-Files(*.lob) of the Project:(__asm ​​및 PCLint 9.0L 오류 14: 이전에 정의된 기호 'TS_IntDisableAsm(void)' 프로젝트에 대해 PCLint-Check 9.0L을 사용하고 모든 Lint-Object-Files(*.lob)에서 Lint-Check 동안 현재 오류 메시지를 받았습니다. 프로젝트:)
String is given, get rid of duplicates and show frequency in hexadecimal instead I need some assistance.(문자열이 제공되고 중복을 제거하고 16진수로 빈도를 표시합니다. 대신 도움이 필요합니다.)
How to find the smallest element that might have duplicates in a Linked List in C(C의 연결 목록에서 중복이 있을 수 있는 가장 작은 요소를 찾는 방법)
Draw the reflex effect for cairo text For draw the reflex effect we have to draw the image with flip y.(카이로 텍스트에 대한 반사 효과 그리기 반사 효과를 그리기 위해 플립 y로 이미지를 그려야 합니다.)
What does this syntax *((unsigned int *)(buffer+i)) mean in C(C에서 이 구문 *((unsigned int *)(buffer+i))은 무엇을 의미합니까?)
C recursive function using pointer arthimatic updates values, but not pointer arthimatic values(포인터 관절 값을 사용하는 C 재귀 함수는 값을 업데이트하지만 포인터 관절 값은 업데이트하지 않습니다.)
What type casting address, when assigning to pointer, does?(포인터에 할당할 때 주소 유형 캐스팅은 무엇입니까?)
How to best emulate the logical meaning of _mm_slli_si128 (128-bit bit-shift), not _mm_bslli_si128Looking through the intel intrinsics guide, I saw this instruction.(_mm_bslli_si128이 아닌 _mm_slli_si128(128비트 비트 시프트)의 논리적 의미를 가장 잘 에뮬레이트하는 방법 인텔 내장 함수 가이드를 통해 이 명령을 보았습니다.)
Multi line input from stdin using fgets()(fgets()를 사용하여 stdin에서 여러 줄 입력)
Extern declaration follows non-extern declaration in same scope(Extern 선언은 동일한 범위에서 비 extern 선언을 따릅니다.)
Is it possible to send out float value with realtime signal?
Drawing pixels which connect 2 points I'm trying to draw the direction of my player on a minimap.
How to replace substring in a string with another string in C?
Do Struct-style register definitions consume RAM So I've been scouring the internet for an answer and have not gotten anywhere.
C - split String into strings [duplicate]
Using a function pointer on a non-struct/union Is there a simpler way to 'bind' a function pointer to an object in C?
Graphs: for an adjacency matrix
What is the effect of extern "C" in C++?
Portable Executable File Without Any Dependencies Nor Import I have a program installed on my computer.
Chaining assignment in an if condition
Why is this result in the for statement? 
Why two different variables in two dirrerent fucntions share same memory location in C? Why my code is showing this kind of behavior?
Why does isnan(x) exist if x != x gives the same result?
free(): invalid pointer aborted core dumped
Reading lines from a text file in C
How to store a value from a MySQL database in a C variable
Multi dimentionnal for loopIs there a simple way to convert this
How can I search for matching records in a text file in c basing on a search criteria.
Flush output buffer every N chars I would like to flush my buffer after every three characters are typed in (instead of the \n). 
Is this an correct C program?
Input variables use random values instead of the ones I want them to use The inputs V, A and e inside the main function take on random values. Instead, I wanted to give them values through the inputs. I assume that it's because of the variables not being initialized in the graph function but these values come from structures. What did I do wrong?
How do I find where a string in is saved in my virtual memory? 
Why is my C Socket client failing to receive data and it is failing with an error code of 104.
What is the difference between the two statements in c?
C command line arguments with Windows.h I'm making a simple window program in C with windows.h (I'm quite new to this).
Int-pointer type could not be assigned int-pointer type?
Can't create message queue in Linux subsystem on Windows
printing with pointers and strings (C)can someone explain why this prints out : "d ce"
Is there any way to return a string starting at a certain index without using the library functionschar* string = "Hello, what's up?";
How can I include a variable in remove() function?
Socket Programming — recv() cannot get all data
What's wrong in my 'if' statement I am getting a garbage value?
What does this assignment to a string literal do?
insertion in a singly linked list at a specific position
About generating make file prerequisites automatically
Euler 10, Sum of primes to 2000000 I have a problem with my algorithm.
how do I count the amount of prime numbers each thread has found Ubuntu?
passing pointer to a reading pointer of a string to a function parameter
Double precision is different in different languages I'm experimenting with the precision of a double value in various programming languages.
How to make a nested list in C using a single linked list struct format which contains a void pointer and a recursive pointer to the struct?
Is there a way to repeat characters in a string in C?
Stack around the variable 'returnedstring' was corrupted I am trying to write a function that will return the largest ASCII letter from each word.
C: how to use realloc on Strings properly in this program?
bus error and "Segmentation fault" with a minimal code containing a struct in C
Create c or c++ program that only Use ntdll.dll 
Removing elemenets from the matrix diagonals
SAL annotations for returning reference counted objects
Disconnecting ZeroMQ socket and ZMQ_EVENT_DISCONNECTEDThe ZeroMQ API documentation states that the event (source here):
how to solve "expected statement {"
Expand macro to no code: "do {} while (0)" or "while (0) {}" In my code I use a macro that should generate a log entry or it should not according to some compilation flag:
Undefined intel_sse4_strlenI am running into an issue.
How fast is accessing a struct member in C? Is the process of accessing a struct member any slower than accessing a direct variable?
different between sizeof(p) and sizeof(*p) while p has base type of a matrice
I cannot return pointer to local variable, but I can return pointer to data of local struct in c?
why is a signal-handler calling signal() in his method-body?
Finding non-integer in a string
Can the qsort comparison function always return a non-zero value?
Parse command output to a variable with file descriptors
How do I link x64 linux asm and c together?
How to display unicode for treble clef to GLUT(Open GL) screen?
Storing a string in another variable in C I am writing a program to check if the given string is a palindrome or not.
How do I use C11 atomic functions or MIPS ll/sc to synchronize access to a large data item?
How do i add boolean in c?
How to make program working properly after using goto?
fatal error: bson/bson.h: No such file or directory
Change time from UTC to local time in C I would like to output in local time, America/Los_Angeles to the log file. Currently
How to detect periodic GPIO change in PIC I am using a PIC12F675 microcontroller with the MPLAB X IDE.
struct tm becomes PST when passing through a function
Why the value is changed for the Read-Only Compound Literal?
How to allocate memory for a struct with a member of unknown variable size?
Taking an input through array of pointers
Scan a line with spaces and symbols to separate the entries and using structures in C
Find most frequent letter in C Here is my code to find the most frequent letter in an string.
Does JNR-FFI UTF8String is zero-terminated after passing to C?
problem pthread_mutex_lock wait forever if it is inside for loop
After storing the char Y (input from user for looping) in my condition variable, my while loop still not executing?
Benchmarking C struct comparsion: XOR vs ==Say we have a simple struct in C that has 4 fields:
Why am I getting undefined symbol 'sprintf' in Code Vision AVR using C language?
How does OpenMP use the atomic instruction inside reduction clause?
GCC check if an expression will execute in a constant time
Use an array and allocate memory in a struct (Flexible array members)
read from text file and write in a binary or hex file Would please somebody tell me why i constantly get coredump segmentation?
using lock struct (mutex) inside threads i am trying to sync between threads to read lines from a txt using a mutex.
what happens when function doesnt explicitly return a value?
Port setrlimit RLIMIT_CPU to windows
Unable to build sqlcipher3 on Windowsafter building sqlcipher, copied sqlite3.c and sqlite3.h in the root folder
confusing about what kmap doesso I read that kmap is mapping physical page to the kerne l memory but when I use this to edit some user pointer (like copy to user), but  when I edit the buffer that kmap return to me it doing nothing. isn't it should map the user memory to the kernel and return the virtual address that points the physical user memory?
Trouble Opening File in C I am very new to programming (and this website) so thank you for your help and your patience.
Error: core dumped in a acquisition of a string in C I am trying to acquire a string in C and verify its length.
fatal error: 'linux/bio.h' file not found When I try to compile my eBPF program with bio.h included I get an error.
What is the difference between char *name[10] and char (*name)[10]?
How to check a if a string contains a letter in c? 
The pointer problem in C language, does anyone know why the output of this code is different?
Why do I get 3221226356 error when calling free in C?
How can I fill a 2D array spirally in C?
Is it safe to fork from within a thread?
how to use goto for this for loop?
Inserting into an arrayIn this task, you need to illustrate the process of inserting an element into an array. 
Difference between #pragma omp parallel and #pragma omp parallel for
Why 5 % -2 is giving 1 in C language [duplicate]
failed to merge target specific data of file /usr/lib/libc_nonshared.a(elf-init.oS)
My string assigning correctly into my char array (C)
Ignore macro if it is not defined
Adding a byte to the first byte of an uint32 I'm playing little bit with bitwise operators in c.
Eclipse Build Variables Relative to Path Variables My project has external resource files linked to a folder on my computer.
Using a Taylor series to find sin(x) in C I have an assignment where my professor wants us to calculate sin(x) using a taylor series.
If char *name = "Emma", why is &name not the same as &name[0]?
C - issues with sizeof (featuring strtok)Edit: I later discovered this issue mainly stemmed from my confusion with sizeof , and replacing it with strlen was pretty much my solution.
Algorithm for multiplying polynomials using linked list in C
c - sendto/recvfrom not getting correct information on some end
Two sum -leet code Address Sanitizer problemint
Declaring a Array of Struct using Variables in C++ Trying to make it to where a struct array can be changed by typing out the requested limit.
Reading 23 bytes even the buffer is of 10bytes I know it's very dumb but I really don't get what the heck is happening here.
String literal to char array literal
Right place to store .glade files?
Can someone tell me why the functions are not returning a value?
Segmentation fault on mov instruction x86
How to accept file argument in C?
how to have correctly multiple variables in same shared memory segment I am trying to have 2 integers in the same memory segment
Why `&` is not allowed in C, but in C++ in this case? Is there any defference?
Object material does not change in openglI need to change the ball material to chrome. 
Is there something like maven-shade-plugin in C or C++ when linking?
Nested Linked List Adding Nodes I have a nested linked list within an object that contains file names.
data segment containing heap data or static variables
The st_dev parameter of a stat structure negative value
CMake ignore custom toolchain file.
function pointer prototype which takes three integer pointers as arguments and returns character pointer
Why does general-purpose register w0 change value in arm64?
Good practice with reading file with getc() Lets say that reading a file with getc() 
How to compile c language with different options with vscode?
Thread never gets the lock (pthread_mutex_lock)Story
Keil ARMCC int64 comparison for Cortex M3I noticed that armcc generates this kind of code to compare two int64 values:
Cannot send or receive data through UART on PIC24F development board
How can I return the pointer to a specific node in this Binary Tree?
Can't delete printf I wrote for testing in the beginnig I have a function to read data from text file to a linked list.
how to send a file using sockets in c
Intellisense not working for C/C++ in Visual Studio code
How "else" works in "1 line if" in C?
How to make two threads execute alternately?
How to implement Scanf while using pointers in C
C Timeout when calculate sum of every combination multiplication of three arrays
libuv simple send udp I'm doing a multiplatform shared library in C, which sends UDP messages using libuv, however I don't know much about libuv and I don't know if my implementation is good, or if there is another solution besides libuv.
how to check variable validity and how to send array of structure to function?
CS50's pset3 Tideman... my lock function doesn't seem to work I've been trying to solve an issue I have with the lock_pairs function.
How to broadcast message from one process in a communicator A to all processes of a communicator B in MPI using C language?
use peprocessor macros to generate function calls
Why does the same command work differently in Makefile than it does when ran manually? 
How to read strings from a file and store them as objects without using two loops
Memory out of bounds or Read error for Programming ARM cortex M4
c - can't get multiple strings with scanf() I've been struggling to get two lines seperated with space and my scanf() is not working properly
if statement with modulo operator inside for loop
Get Decimal Number From String in C
fgets is ignored, and problem passing value into an array of structures
Returning an array using C
How do we sign a char an integer value in C and take a sum?
Invalid read of size 1 Valgrind So I got this error from when using Valgrind: Invalid read of size 1.
VSCode - disable comments auto-formatting for C codeI just installed an extension prettier in vscode to autoformat my code.
Why does it seem that func is the same as &func in C?
String to integer conversion giving wrong output I was solving the time conversion problem in hackerrank using call by value of C language.
C language - Read .csv file, problem with searching for a specific value I have a problem with my code.
How can I malloc a struct array inside a function?
How can I duplicate an array of pointers in C? 
Passing array from main function to other functions in C
How to accept user input in Visual Studio Code integrated Terminal?
Linking libraries in Xcode C-lang I have a project which makes use of a 3rd party library. 
Is this use of macros in C portable?
node pointer to point to an array of node pointers I'm having trouble understanding pointers with nodes and arrays. 
Issues with sscanf in C
How to generate 32-bit dll from a C git repo
Finding the middle number out of three (without if-else and such)
Hashtables in C In this code I need to initialize, insert in a hashtable and print the values in these 2 stuctures:
File transfer completes, but program doesn't receive end of file condition to stop writing in C
A pointer to array of pointers to function
Sending and receiving file size successfully in C I want to be able to send a file from the client to the server.
How to convert struct's function to C
Robocopy - will it produce corrupted files if I stop it before it finishes?
Is it safe to assign a struct member pointer to another dynamically memory allocated pointer?
Redeclared extern FILE *stderr; libfprintf
Accessing label address outside of function I'm writing "threaded interpreter" using computed goto. 
MPU6050 SLEEP bit gets set while writing to accelerometer config register
C code stops when it suppose to run scanf line I wrote a code which is supposed to count how many active bits (1s) are in a binary number that it gets from the user, considering the input is a correct binary number.
Tracing a program from its entry point with ptrace (linux, c) I want to trace registers & instructions of a program using ptrace.
Possible to know section of memory a variable is located? Is there any way in a C program to know the section that a variable is in?
d get text failing to translate string
Why Valgrind reports Address 0x522da08 is 0 bytes after a block of size 8 alloc'd?
Printf with conditional format
Visual Studio error: 'strcpy_s': too few arguments for call I have run following C code in the Code::Blocks IDE and it worked properly without a problem.
Why do I receive two SIGCONT signals?
Parse Readings and send it via ESP-NOWBriefly
Organizing lines of a file using C
How to iterate items in a table using the C API
Problems generating Eclipse CDT project from C Make
Process returned -1073741819,conversion from binary to decimal
Is using if (0) to skip a case in a switch supposed to work?
problem : compilation successful but wrong result
self made shell problems 
Invalid initializer when calling malloc in C?
How does Inserting a New Node into a Linked List Exactly Work in C?
Can I call a function from unknown source safely?
Delete a specific node in a linked list
Zlib decompress bytes with unknown compressed length in C I am trying to write my own png reader without any external libraries.
Read a file character by character and pass them to an array in C
reading utmpx without FILE* in c I'm having a issue with my program I want to read in the users from the utmpx file and output it but I keep getting strange output.
Get chunks from the bytes of a PNG in C I'm trying to separate the chunks of a png's bytes in C. 
Linux kernel driver hooking syscall not working
How render latex fonts and formulas in Cairo C?
Redirecting thread to another function
Blurring an Image in C: Code only half works My goal is to blur an image in C (not C++), by taking the average of all surrounding pixels.
cs50 cash not returning desired outputcs50 greedy algorithm description
CS50x Pset 2 Readability: Why are L and S not correctly calculated?
How do I prevent infinite stdin looping?
Why do I get the warning 'control reaches end of non-void function' even when the return is guaranteed
Running Splint on C Project | Include Problems & Running on a Complete Project
Where does the execution happen after a thread has called pthread_wait is now signalled?
Reading a text flle "line by line" into an array in c I want to modify this function  to read files line by line into an array.
How to print 1 when any bit of a number equals 0?
Using main() parameter vectors
How do I convert/truncate any big number to its first 3 digit in C?
How do I get the digit from my input and print it out?
Continue executing a stopped process with SIGALRM in C the job is to continue executing a child process I stopped when I receive a SIGALRM signal.
Windows 10 C Wildcard Directory Search With Find First File api Fails
I need help accepting a newline from a user input in cIs there a way in c to accept multiple new lines from a user and print it to screen?
How to pass values between processes after using the fork() call?
Reverse order in array of char in C
Difference between free() function with or without malloc This is part of cs50 pset5 speller.
Freeing dynamically allocated arrays in C inside second function
sample application - Client does not have certificate
CS50 Task Resize More I am unable to reduce the BMP file correctly
Can i make window unresizable in sokol using sokol-app.h? Is it possible to make window unresizable without pain of scaling graphics?
Linked list program only printing last two nodes of list I wrote a program to create and print a single linked list.
Can't declare variable in switch case
Trace/breakpoint trap if I free a pointer, but the same thing does not happen in the other if statements
In C/C++, I am trying to call different functions (explained in description) in a for loop without if-else ladder
Return values and constraints for asm (assembler code) using gnu Extended Asm
How does the static allocation of a protoent struct work?
What's the best approach to check if in a array of lists a single list is empty after I used calloc?
How to prevent system from taking the sentinel value as an input?
How do I add a Y/N to the following code?
Arduino calculating with pins I just searched for a library for an LCD.
How to run multiple C codes on Clion?
Wireshark not capturing HTTP response/request from/to loopback IP I'm programming a simple web server in C. 
CS50 Readability, How to print the total number of letters?
wrong output after strcat in xv6
I can't input a string in c So I've tried so much but I can't input a string even using: fgets, gets, scanf, and scanf("%[^\n]%*c",pharse).
Why are test cases not passing in this c program?
I'm trying to count the numbers in a string in C What's wrong with my code?
How can i create an inline copy of an function I want to have a function that, also has an inline version.
PYBIND11 call into C function with variable argument list I am using Pybind11 to call C functions from the Python.
Correctly use ifdef to do custom debugging I'm trying to print message only if it's a debug version.
What's the best way to turn some spaced integers to an array in C using getchar()?
C depth-first-search - how to handle not enough file pointers being available?
correct output but online judge won't except question:
Is it UB to give a char argument to printf where printf expects a int?
isdigit function is not catching mixed values in argv[]
Swift / C interop, struct data change in Swift not updating back in C
Once You Free() a Struct, the Struct’s Pointer is Still Active?
How to access my user mode thread_local variables inside my windows kernel driver?
Why does the MPI_Alltoallv function interface forces data to belong to only one array?
Why does the typeof function not working in C
Cannot find what is wrong in CS50 Pset4 reflect?
Expand macro inside string literal
Explain the algorithm and check whether the number is a prime number or not?
Program With 2 Inputs from the User to Calculate Prices of Products in C
What does it mean to have a zero sized array of pointers?
How to block multiple usage of an enum element to a macro function during compile time
Interrupt handler chaining in real mode
error: called object is not a function or function pointer.
Does a freed memory set pointers referencing to it to null?
Inserting value in the back of linked list
how to print out only unduplicated charaters in a string?
Segmentation fault using pthread and arm-linux-gnueabihf-gcc I have been trying all day to fix a segmentation fault that only occurs on one device. 
how to allocate space in a struct
CS50 Speller Segmentation Fault Issue During Misspelled Words
multithreading server store messages from clients and print them after x seconds
Number of bytes recv()'d larger than the amount of data stored in the buffer?
How to fix error when complice the makefile with mytee
how to lock a file so that other process cannot cat it?
Is an external linkage inline function really inline?
I don't know why the computer shows "variable-sized object may not be initialized", can somone help me please?
config-temp/qemu-conf.c:1:10: fatal error: sys/endian.h: File or directory not found
Does libdrm talk to kernel DRM/graphics card via ioctl()?
GeniCam Standard XML format I am trying to include some configuration XML file that complies with Geni Cam standard for a camera application in C.
How to stop repeating the values of variable and catch all values?
how do i get a lower time complexity with a nested loop
num of output files is different from num of files that opened when i run my code the output file is filename.as.ob.ent;
Check is string is in given format in C
Print Pattern Using Iterative Approach I am an absolute beginner to C.
Is floating point math broken?
request for member 'sval' in something not a structure or unionI am getting an error in my parser for a toy language I am making.
Use mbedTLS to pull public certificate chain from a server and store as a string
How to add a string to then beginning of binary file
Segmentation fault in C for Stack implementation using arrays with pointers
Issues cross compiling libnftn l for armlibnftn l had a dependency on libmn l and I cross compiled libmn l separately for ARM.
What is the order of execution in these type of cases?
How to make a digital clock with an 8051 microcontroller
How to count the number of words and sentences per string in c?
Why is the positioning of the newline character before the string leading to it not getting printed?
error compiling code - 'for' loop initial declarations are only allowed in C99 mode
CS50 Filter(less) blur functionI'm extremely new to CS and thought I would turn to the community for help.
Crash or "segmentation fault" when data is copied/scanned/read to an uninitialized pointer
Why does splint suggest that { 0 } doesn't really initialize all elements to zero in C: Initializer does not define all elements of a declared array
(C language ) Can i use an fopen instruction inside another fopen instruction?
Make an https request using sockets on linux
clock() returning negative time difference on Windows machine
Unable to convert character array elements as integer elements in C
Why is this binary search tree level order traversal not working?
Specifying a scanset along with the 'h' width modifier in "swscanf" doesn't work with MSVC
read argv[1] into say "key" using atoi. Should only accept int. If a non int like 3g is entered how do I reject is as non int
printf outputs too often
Comparison of godbolt assembly of basic C program
Why is there a continue statement in xv6's scheduler algorithm?
cs50 filter "blur" pset4 This code for cs50 filter "blur" compiles, but when I run it, it says, index 600 out of bounds for type 'RGBTRIPLE [width].'
InternetOpenUrl with self signed certificate
it shows output more than 4 times I was trying to make a program in C that basically asks the user some information about the people they live with.
When I'm accessing memory values in my microcontroller why is it pointing to the end of my data value?
Why is the sum of my array (using a pointer to calculate) incorrect?
How to always link math in sublime text?
how to restart socket properly in a multithread c/c++ programBackground: My code structure: I have a master socket on main thread, then each time a new client is coming, the threadpool will be notified and let one pre allocated thread take the task.
Query regarding the default return type of a function in c++
A few questions about dynamic memory allocation
how to interpret "shift/reduce" conflicts in bison
How to understand index of while loop in binary search?
linked-list in C showing the last 2 elements only
Download File from a Server using TCP Sockets on Unix in C / C++ without additional libraries
How can I represent a given memory layout, rather than mathematical value, in C?
is it safe to throw an exception or call Queue User APC again inside an APC routine?
FFMpeg, libav, Problem with sws_scale and yuv to rgb conversion - colors are not correct
Variadic Macro doesnt compile
How to identify what is causing the Segmentation fault
Convert IPv6 to IPv4 format in c++?
How to identify OCaml extensible variant type value in C?
Cross-compilng C program for ARMv8-A in Linux X86_64 system
Why there is another bytes in stack which not allocated by local variables?
Multiplying matrices in generalI wrote a programm for multiplying matrices together.
Cannot read from UART port, Beaglebone Black I am trying to read data from UART1 of Beaglebone Black.
C++ program giving weird int value after looping
Why segmentation fault doesn't occur with smaller stack boundary?
Difference between the following codes in array Reversal in C I was solving some basic problems in C on hackerrank.
Can anyone explain why the outputs are different in C and Java?
Print elements from array of matrices in C?
Does PIC16f877a microcontroller follow little endian byte ordering system?
how to offload precise ADC oversampling with RISC-V GD32VF103CBT6 Development Board
Convert decimal to binary with billions number in C
How do i save different kinds of input?
Why does it takes a little longer to display 'Hello' after terminating a For loop before the printing syntax?
Is it possible to compile multiple dependent C files, without creating header file?
CRC16 CCITT code - how to adapt manufacturer sample sourceI try to create a code that would read data from RFID reader module.
How to implement terminal scrolling?
HTTP filter - pass request based on subrequest response
How to input unknown number of user strings? How to read unknown number of user inputted strings?
Sorting struct from binary file in C
Type casting: double to char: multiple questions Consider this code:
A realloc noob usage, working for some cases otherwise a seg faultint* dynamic
how to insert nodes in red black tree node?
How can I print a variable size "string" in C using a for loop?
Coccinelle rule to match foo() call inside an if
How can I write a function that will find the index with the lowest value
question regarding filed in C - how to scan print get
Declaration of Structure in multiple header files If I define a structure in a.c then how can I access that structure in multiple header files say a.h, b.h, and c.h?
making random values in one function be same for each run while random values in another function be different for each run
swprint equivalent - replacing wchar_t with char
implicit declaration of function [-Wimplicit-function-declaration]
Struct fscanf in file C
Adding 0's if it found any of the element with 0's and push that it to last element
Sharing variables between C and Javascript for real-time dashboard
Cannot use CSS in GTK+ 3, using Gtk Css Provider
Problems with sorting algorithm (descending order) in C I have a function that I want to be able to sort an array in descending order.
SDL-Image: Couldn't open image, only error msg
expected 'const csim_stats_t * {aka const struct <anonymous> *}' but argument is of type 'csim_stats_t * {aka struct <anonymous> *}'
printing an X using while loops
how can i store a string in an array in c?
sorting C file numerically I have some structs in my file and I have to sort them numerically (I have to sort the ID of students for example)
Bison code error :scanner.y:1.1-7.2: syntax error, unexpected {...} I'm writing a lexer and a parser with flex and bison.
How do I compare length of two strings of two struct members?
Why my C program is giving wrong output but the code is right?
C char array from python string I have a list of strings in python which I'm trying to pass down to a C extension for character analysis.
C program returning default case before it should execute?
Include header file only if it is available in C?
How to send array as pointer to function C
Errors With Visual Studio Express 2013 on a C Project : error C2107: illegal index, indirection not allowed
Block main thread, and wait for 5 other threads in a thread pool I have 11 threads: main, and 10 more in a Thread Pool.
C Array with Pointer to Struct Inside a Struct
Why gdb shows different addresses in RIP-relative mode from absolute address?
Realloc pointer in C++ that was malloced() in C I'm writing a library in C++ that is supposed to interop with other C code/libraries. 
C bubble sort by pointers for array of strings not running inner loop?
Analog of select() for monitoring child processes?
Why my C program is failed to detect the special characters?
Writing a wave generator with SDL I've coded a simple sequencer in C with SDL 1.2 and SDL_mixer(to play .wav file).
modify first number from a read file c languageint main()
ACSL list example in the documentation generate a bad sounding warning
Can I tell the compiler that I need to earlyclobber a memory operand?
MySQL related memory leaks
heap-buffer-overflow with fprintf I'm updating my question, very sorry for asking it the wrong way.
How to parse and extract the date from a string with several other elements
Taking K'th element in BCT(Binary count Tree)
Cannot read from /dev/parport by timeout
A function to read new line in c from a given stream
How to randomize a place in array
understanding the effect of `alignas` and ubsan I'm looking at some legacy code from someone who is no longer the OSS project I work on.  
Conditional data watchpoint doesn't work in ARM GDB
caesar cipher does not work, can't figure why
C - How scanf inputs work and how it iterates in loops?
C Programming : Need to get output of the number of letters in a string.
How can i find a string within a file and return the desired field in C language
question about shift operation and bracket operationfor(i=0; i<8 ;i++)
what is the type of a pointer to dynamically allocated memory of pointers of type char?
Are data type identifiers necessary when declaring a function in C?
How to design a simple login system in C?
When and how does bool get called in this code?
Segmentation fault error while working with command-line argument, C program
How to send keyboard input to another program
Method not writing to file I am trying to create a method in C
How to read audio in C (i.e. FFT or buckets)? TL;DR: How do I read audio from a file in C (not C++)?
Why is the answer to this code being printed 3 times on each number until it is right?
How can I effectively time the execution of a function that's only a few cycles long?
Is using the C code to create Python extensions UB in C++ due to lifetime?
Returning an array of strings and assigning it to a variable in C
The problem of creating a dynamic array and fill random numbers* I get an error when I want to fill random numbers to Array.
Does every expression in C make a copy of the variables?
(SOLVED) C 2D Array: Finding Max from each row and Min from each column
find nan in array of doubles using simd
Leet code problem works in my IDE, but RuntimeError occurs if i submit it to leetcode
Windows service does not capture shutdown event C/C++I created a small windows service to capture some events, including the system shutdown. 
How do I deal with "undefined reference to `regcomp'" error
Should clang and gcc produce a diagnostic message when a program does pointer arithmetic on a function pointer?
Cypher program fails on non digit argv check
How to implemetation timer by libevent? I used libevent to implement a timer using multiple event bases. I  want to know if this design is optimal?
undefined reference to 'strftime with Kinetis KL25Z Board and Codewarrior IDE
Fatfs detect SD card removal I have an Issue with my SD card that, if it is removed it is not detected. (Removed manually). 
Why is it showing "Error: Cannot open file" even though I created the text.txt and it's in my Desktop?
Why does bit shifting with equal sign prints out different result opposed to non-equal case? Why are 01 and 02 case different?
In C, why can't you use sscanf() to trim a string?
How to choose different words to be shown using if statement?
function with strtok rolling in the deep
C/C++ Common Controls detecting double-click of TV Item
why it gives negative values when finding factorial in C?
Creating num processes with fork and then deleting some that i will not use
Dynamically use a structure in cIn my code there are multiple structures like structure_1, structure_2, structure_3 etc.
stdio error detection: ferror versus fclose
arm-none-eabi-gcc (error: initializer element is not constant)I'm working through the book Embedded Systems Architecture by Daniele Lacamera. 
Factorial of a number using user defined function giving garbage value in c
Is it possible to forward declare a static const int in the same header?
C Linked List storing the last value only
Matrix multiplation programI am trying to build a program which multiplies a matrix by itself and puts the answer in another matrix.
error: assignment to expression with array type in c
Buffer Overflow Attack doesn't work on Ubuntu 20.04 I'm trying to do a Buffer Overflow attack on a simple C program that takes a buffer and print it.
Is strcpy generally unsafe or are there legitimate use-cases of that function?
Advantages of null termination vs count variable I need to use array of graph data, i.e. struct with x and y integers. 
Setup a custom Thread Local Storage For some research related project of mine, I'm trying to setup a second TLS after a new thread is created.
Posix semaphore equivelent of Pthread mutex lock for mutual exclusion in C Using this section of code below as an example
counting a number of "special words" in C
Compiler using local variables without adjusting RSP
Difference between writing an integer in a HEX from a real I was given a task at the university, there is a number and I need to display it in HEX as it is presented on the computer. 
printf not giving me the correct output, maybe scanf is to blame, advice please
Supermarket Simulation in C
waiting for 2 child processes I'm trying to write a C program in which the main process creates two children
Stack Implementation in C [Array] Issue- "this" must be a modifiable lvalue
Netbeans 8.2, build attempt fails to find msys2 I am working on a building a netbeans project that requires msys.
Sorting an array of strings in C using pointers without qsort
g' is used uninitialized in this function [-Wuninitialized]
A different value is inserted in my array in C I have a variable called 'end' and is inserting value inside my 2d array called 'xWithSurface'.
How to print the generated parse tree using Bison?
How to have a 2d array that have characters and numbers in them in (c)
Does sizeof returns the amount of memory allocated?
How to debug Linux Kernel on a remote machine? How to debug a custom Linux Kernel on a remote machine?
How to only process the macros in a C/C++ project without compiling it?
Invalid argument on sendto with UNIX domain datagram socket
to upper case every words in file in C can you tell me what adjustments i can do for my code, or any simplifications?
Forward declare a struct in C Quick question, how do I forward declare the following treeNodeListCell struct.
How exactly array type is stored in C?
C Debug Assertions Failed With fopen I have a super simple program
How can an index be a string (i[s])?
Parsing serial data continuously - is there a better approach?
fork() and execvp() unexpected outcome when used with sudo So when i invoke this program without sudo.
error: initialization from incompatible pointer type [-Werror=incompatible-pointer-types] .read = dev_read, Linux
Build OpenSSL RSA from components
How can I get the memory address of a global variable using a Format String Attack in C?
issues with newline strtok from a file
Why is repz ret needed for a simple function? 
Counter trouble
Sepia Filter undefined reference to main?
How do I stop inserting from inputs to an array of strings when a particular string is encountered in a C program?
Find longest path in 2d array first increasing then decreasing
Priority Queue synchronization with pthreads I'm working on a college assignment where we are to implement parallelized A* search for a 15 puzzle.
How i can sort struct by characters in C?
C program not taking user input 
how do i free a memory block when i have to return it back?
Call a char pointer in the function
Are SWIG generated wrappers portable?
Implementation of bit field in cWe have been given an assignment to create a made - up version of an assembler (not with the exact assembly commends)
Storing multiple entry into linked list I have a text file consists of multiple journal entries which I can read it and store it into a struct called Journal. 
The first and last Addresses of data, stack and heap
C program doesn't start, implementing Dijkstras algorithm I am doing an assignment for class that is supposed to be coded a very specific way.
How do I declare a variable length array and initialize it to zero?
Unusual extra 2 bytes being written with a 2 byte char array in a binary file
How to calculate MFLOPS using Valgrind knowing execution time?
Why does the LIBRARY_PATH variable redundantly use "/../../" for locating certain directories?
Handling zombies with SIGCHLD In my program, I am listening to incoming SIGCHLD signals to avoid zombies.
printf printig inconsistent garbage when char array is returned to main
Unused parameter/value in pycparser I just started using pycparser to lint some C code.
How to parse BMP header in C in easy (beginner friendly) way
optimize complex logic condition I suffered complex C style code logic like as
Is it necessary to typecast the void pointer before assigning it to another pointer type?
Compare function to give a G Array when used with G String i have a G Array with GString.
What is the difference between scanf("%s", &str) and scanf("%s\n", &str)?
Segmentation fault(core dumped) How I rid this error?
Why does a negative number converted to size_t become a huge number in C?
Warning When Returning Pointer My file include 1 word in every line(i know the number of the line).
Problem with reading and writing array from a file in C in pointer program version I have a task.
How can I map one string to another string in C?
binary string to int works only sometimes
(Read from file) Linked list in CI'm new to C programming, and I'm having some difficulties.
inode number is changed suddenly at certain location in c programming on linux
Explain the strange output ''I have written the code in C language,
Get Full Path Name A Returns Project's Path (WinAPI C) [SOLVED]
Why am i not able to create two new users in SQLite connected to C?
Having an issue while doing Socket programming in CIn this problem, client is sending server, two strings.
Description Resource Path Location Type invalid type argument of unary '*' (have 'uint32_t {aka long unsigned int}') Why do I get this error on sum = line ?
Incompatible pointer when int and long are the same?
Find min value in 2d array with MPI Recently began to study MPI technology
Can't set QOS markings on Mac OS Majave with the IP_TOS socket option using setsockopt"Type of service" is defined as the second byte in the IPv4 header. Trying to set this byte in our outbound UDP traffic on our Mac OS app.
gdb dubugger raise an error everytime I type run command someting related with bfd
how to convert from unsigned byte to an integer?
Detaching a node from list while keeping it stored in pointer
GCC linker discards interrupt handlerWhile debugging an application, and finding that the ISR never actually enters, I checked the .map file and discovered that teh handler function is in the "discarded input sections", is there a way to force the linker to not do so? 
How to increase an array's element with pointers in C?
Is multiple-level "struct inheritance" guaranteed to work everywhere?
Optimize and vectorize random function in c I programed a function to generate pseudo-random numbers, but my compiler doesn't vectorize this not vectorized: complicated access pattern.
problem in a variant of copy command using mmap()
pointer changes unexpectedly despite not being changed out of scope I am writing code here to try and replicate virtual memory in C.
How do I install libraries for <stropts.h>?
How to get access to parent's object handles?
Unable to PyImport_Import modules which imports modules
UTF8 charecter printing to file in C i am trying to learn coding c.
scanf when reading string not giving expected result
Reading and Writing in the same FILE in C
Not responding my pointer function and not returning correct value
fopen() file path in C I have clone a git repository in C:/Repo.
I am trying to add vectors in a for loop, but after 2 iterations I get an incorrect answer (C)
My code doesn't output the triple like it should. What could be the matter?
How to control exported symbols when writing a static library in Visual Studio?
View a specific bit of a hex number?
How can I store the substring from the strrchr function?
Please look and advise I am trying to learn how to write in C.
When is GtkTextView's preferred size updated?
Can't Create Function to Create Unique Array Purpose of Code:
How to extend Pointer<Int8> in dart?
Why does printf leave some random characters in the main function?
Why fgets() doesn't read after the first element?
Binary file reading error, Is it an endian issue or a file reading issue?
zero sized heap memory in page aligned allocation
\n' and '\r' recognized as 2 characters instead of 1 I got a null terminated buffer (filled using 'read' syscall) with the following content:
Given three edges 1.1, 2.2, 3.3, determine if they can form a triangle using language C, but there's a strange problem
Freeing memory for new_node I have a function to store words into a linked list, when I run valgrind it tells me to free memory in the function, however, when I try to free it the code wont run for the test cases.
Copy multiple structs data into one single C struct?
uint64_t to an array - C languageI tried to parse uint64_t array to an array of char (result in decimal, separated by comma). 
Implicit declaration of function ‘fopen_s’ [-Wimplicit-function-declaration] FILE *f = fopen_s(stdin);
Kernel Development : Hooking Execve And Printing char *const argv[] I am trying to HookExecve and print arguments. 
If GCC only finds a static library and not a dynamic one, does it resort to static linking the found file?
Given a day of the year, how would I convert it into date/month format?
Do you need to use extern with incomplete types?
C - problem with const - error: initializer element is not constant
Best way to handle Windows dependencies when compiling with clang?
What is the name of this syntax?
Can't step into function Source File Structure:
Problem in designing a shell in C to execute commands connected by logical and I was writing a simple shell in C to execute external commands like command1 & command2 and here is my code:
Programming in C in Visual Studio Community 2017 on Mac I am taking C course and was required to work on VS community 2017. 
How to do multiply and add three fixed point numbers
Packing bits in C using bitwise operators
MSVC compiler bug when adding 0 to a pointer with /arch:AVX2; related to Warning C26451
why this code to insert a node at the tail of a linked list caused segmentation error
What determines whether segmentation fault occurs?
How to know check in C language if float decimal places hold values other than 0
const variable initialization inside lock I need to protect the assignment or initialization of a const variable using lock.
Segmentation Fault accessing string in another function
If the address of a pointer is copied over when forking, how is it that the value the pointer is pointing to is unique to each child process?
How to rearrange array using spaces?
How do I get rid of this Segmentation Fault?
Checking a string if it is palindrome or not using pointer What does the bold part stand for in this code?
Pipe the output of a process to a file via UNIX shell command '>' I need to pipe the output of printf statements in some c code so that instead of printing the output to the terminal, it will print the output to a file.
It's about problem 8 in project euler , i can't tell why the code doesn't give me the correct answer
Array is not erased after end of function call in school the teacher told me that when the call to a function reaches an end everything declared inside the function's block will be erased.
C system call fails from second time on I am running a program that a given points do a system call to zip some files.
Split the operation of constructing signed message into two parts
Issue encrypting data using kernel crypto I'm trying to perform AES encryption using kernel crypto. 
Get all output from sqlite3 in C
Why a tcache bin is associated with an arena?
ARM7 Raspberry pi Assembly Segmentation fault after copying string
Why does GCC only complain about an unsigned int argument being used with %i when -pedantic is given?
Why does LD_PRELOAD work with syscalls?
How can I add a value with string into char array?
Using nested for loop to find the second power of numbers using C I need to find the squares of numbers from -14 to 14 using nested for loops.
How to get the IPv4-address of a URL [duplicate]
c programming ncurses.h "KEY_ENTER" not being registered by program [duplicate]
Do I have to change param's type when migrating my lib to 64bit?
Why does this program crash when a dynamically allocated 2D array receive input?
Find the length of the longest word in a string.
Call an assembler function from C code in linux
Changing the current working directory of cmd (from a child process)
How to correct the error in this fibonacci series program in C
getopt always return -1 if begin from third arguments I'm making a simple console that do something based on the command of the second argument.
Calling Cython function from C code raises segmentation fault 
Use write() to write char* to file from user input
Linked list in C with OMP : memory issues
Why i get grandchilds excuted multiple times?
How can I pass an array to a function that cannot modify it?
Why are braces needed for preprocessor in order to have statement?
What is wrong with how I'm dynamically allocating space for this 2d array?
Is there a better way to change every variable in a struct, C
task_struct -> parent always points to root process not the actual parent
Is there a C snippet that computes overflow-safe addition efficiently without using compiler builtins?
C, Creating multiple process with same parent [duplicate]
Alternative to global variables - GLUT CI am doing a Dino Race game in C (not C++) and I'm using GLUT for the graphics.
How to do EOF in CLion IDE?
I'm confused on why this Linked List implementation works I've just recently gotten into linked lists and I'm adding my own "add to end" function. 
i want to take number from user then print if it prime or not but i can't find what is error where result always not prime so what is problem?
How malloc allocates space while inserting values to a binary search tree?
Grand child process has PID 1 in C
Saving a data set in a txt file using C I have an array double x[D] = {x0,y0,z0;x1,y1,z1;...;xn-1,yn-1,zn-1} which describes the positions of n particles in a system.
Function Returning Pointer to Struct Segmentation Fault
How to synch the writing on a file from multiple thread
Is it possible to optimize this nested loop?
Can `scanf("%*s")` fail? I want to write a C program counting the words of a text file.
How can I rasterize a shapefile with C/C++ using GDAL?
How do I continue to receive timed interrupts in an embedded C while loop?
Referencing symbols with a leading period in inline assembly
fgets and sscanf being skipped in c?
ASCII value is shown to be 0It is a program to print ascii values of character entered continuously until enter is pressed but the the value is shown to be 0.
Why returning NULL from main()?
I'd like to know how I can store input from a semi colon separated text if some fields are missing
I was trying to write a program and it seems totally fine but i cannot find the reason why it doesn't work, any help would be thankful
Check cell's location in matrix I have a 7x7 matrix (declared as uint8_t*):
<bsd/string.h> for windows I am using strlcpy, strlcat , strtok_r functions in my c program.
How to get button label from gtk_container_get_children
Unexpected characters at the start of char array i have been trying to write the order in which the tree is traversed, to a .txt file in C.
C emscripten WASM: Hello WorldFor the past few months I have tried without success to create a web assembly hello world.
How to init struct pointer variables with NULL?
GDB Remote Debugging - Cannot instantiate printer for default visualizer Setting up remote gdb debugging in eclipse.
Printing individual variable of a structure in gdb I'm debugging the Linux kernel.
Wrong assignment in string struct variable in C Please help me with this code. Why same name is assigned to all the different structs?
System call hooking example arguments are incorrect
How to use words in c language arrays?
c string manipulation for incoming strings
Trouble generating beep in C code in UbuntuI am learning about device drivers and want to write a kernel module which can generate a sound from pcspkr.
It is possible to render a mobius strip with a raytracer?
Is seek to 0 in an opened file faster than close the file then open it again?
Linux kernel NULL-pointer dereference in memset from kzalloc Quite by chance stumbled upon some code in kernel jungles and was a bit confused.
Reproduce these C types in assembly?
.Exe file won't execute correctly I'm new to the programming world, recently I began my programming path with C, and because of that I made a program that determines if a number is whether perfect or not. I use Code::Blocks IDE, and it works just fine, the problem is when I click the option "Build and run", the IDE executes the program and works perfectly, but when I select the .exe file from my desktop, it opens up, but doesn't show any output, the window just closes suddenly. Does someone have any idea on how to solve this issue? 
MPLAB XC8 compiler error:" no identifier in declaration "I wrote a program that is using a Timer 0 Interruption.
Invalid (Aborted)core dumped error while using free() in Chere's the code:
Getting characters without waiting for enter to be pressed
Why does glibc store the return value of a system call into errnoI read that when a system call fails the kernel returns the corresponding error number explaining the failure. Why is this error not directly returned to user applications?
is it safe to write to a file in another thread?
Why I get initializer for aggregate is not a compile-time constant warning? 
How to write char[] into struct?
Linking Ruby Interpreter into C program I'm trying to include the Ruby interpreter in a C program.
C: Why is &= better that =? I'm looking at some old code I inherited, and I really don't like the style at places. 
Arrays are not storing values in the loop That's my C code.
the problem is from a algorithm problem I do recently, but I can't gain the right answer 
Not seeing uploaded file in C when using form-data I have a simple web server in C that prints out everything it receives from a client.
Wrong array values after writing outside the array then using realloc
How do Comma-separated expressions as condition in a for-loop work?
How to reduce space between lines in text using VIPS? Using VIPS, how to reduce the space between lines in a text? 
Sum of digits with test cases in C I am trying to find the sum of digits with test cases.
C Pre-Processor include-path order I typed "cpp -v" on linux and it resulted
Array with arithmetic operator?
Assembly of variable-size stack frame: these stack-alignment instructions seem useless in allocating a VLA?
get segmentation fault error when use strcpy function
Converting postfix to infix notation using array stack
Error in implementing bubble sorting in a merge sort program in C I am learning data structure and algorithms. 
Pthread unexpected output but good result
Valid Expression in C with Help of Macro or typedef: (x) ((x) - 1)Can the "expression" (x) ((x) - 1) ever be a valid C expression with help of macro or typedef?
use node-gyp exception : LNK2001 unresolved external symboluse node-gyp build native module（try to use ffmpeg to my cpp files), it throws an exception: error LNK2001 unresolved external symbol
getchar() != ' ' and getchar() = ' 'I am having trouble understanding what getchar() != ' ' and getchar() = ' ' are doing in my code.
calling function by value in C I am new to C language somehow and I am trying here to call a function "func" in main function but it gives me compiling error.
Adding the value of character in c I was to ask to add the value of a number character into an integer, does anyone know how to do that?
How to solve a runtime error problem like " signed integer overflow: 2147483644 + 4 cannot be represented in type 'int' "?
Segmentation Fault (Malloc/Free in a Loop) I've been revisiting the C language and am having trouble freeing up memory after use in my program:
read everything even when a signal is sent in c program I am stuck in a BIG problem.
Why do the results of my program to find the coordinates of an arc or circle in C differ from the 'correct' results?
Understanding of getpeername function
Is there a C function which calculates process elapsed time?
Running a C script in PycharmHei, I am trying to use an already existing code to convert a protein PDB file into a GIT vector.
formatting sqlite3_exec result
How to edit certain part of char array Is there any function or method in c to do swap/edit of certain part of char array. 
Bus error in C that gets removed when I add a printf statement 
print returned char* value 
What does the following code do in regards to structure pointers?
How to do an operation in two arrays and stock it in one?
Errors while building customised ffmpeg4.1 with opencv I am trying to build my customised ffmpeg of version 4.1. 
Function not evaluating user input
How would you get the epoch time and convert it to local time in arm assembly on a raspberry pi?
printf unexpected behaviour when printing after System() call I have the following "main" function with the related console output.
OLE32 Link Error with multiple definitions of IsEqualGuid
handle ctrl+c in client-server socket in c programing I wrote a telnet server in C programing language.
Win32 CryptoAPI uses RSA algorithm
What is the output that the program trying to achieve I know about the fork(), dup2 calls but I cannot infer the output of the program. 
Output of an unsigned char array
Sorting an array of strings in c using pointers So i am trying to sort an array of  strings but i have no ideea how to pass it to the function.
Search in databaseIm trying to write a program that will search a surname in database of students and print whole line where that surname is.
Building GMP 6.1.2 on ARM64 Using Custom Built GCC 7.2.0 - Assertion Errors - BinUtils Assembler seems to be at fault
How can I double the integer and update them?
Why String Is Not Beeing Printed?
I am now learning how to work with arrays and I'm struggling with my assigment to make a multiplication table and get the average
How can I reverse each word in a string?
Turning MIPS instruction into Binary, then into Hexa decimal For a class project
How to change data of a GtkTreeModel (within "edited" callback)
Set ID for structs based on the current highest ID I need to keep the ID's of my structs organized as I create them. 
Queue resets after every operation I am working on a queue implementation and something weird is happening.
Array becoming NULL after function I have a pretty standard function to read from a file.
How do I fix these conflicting types error when passing linked list in C?
Is there any way to install cs50 C library on a Fedora 31 disto?
GPGME Decrypt showing No Data I am writing a program where I encrypt a file and send it over an SSL Socket using gpgme.
Having trouble with comparing a char with a string (both arrays) and printing the result?
How can I write a simple application using Openthread library
C assigning pointer in function, doesn't change the original pointer (void *) 
Elegant ways to return status code and pointer from a C function I was currently reading this question which shows problems about using void ** as a parameter to return a pointer from a function. 
Why does the sscanf %n format specifier have no effect on the return value?
Check for winner in an NxN tic tac toe game (C program) I have a homework where I have to create an N x N tic tac toe game in C program. 
splitting a string with parentheses and commas into smaller variables using sscanf
Reimplementing split function in C I have been trying to write a function that takes in strings as a line and returns a pointer to an array of words.
Why am I getting an error for my symbolic link program?
To swap two strings in C This is a common method to swap two strings as below and it works pretty well,
Initializing static array using int variable from inside a struct
How to manage unions and bit-fields
Reset mask of ignored signal in Linux During exec() the mask of blocked signals (as set by sigprocmask()) is inherited by child processes.
Get width and height from `xcb_get_geometry_reply()
How to read FIFO Data from MAX30100 using STM32F4 i'm monitorating heart rate by the MAX30100
Big O notation for an if else selection statement with for loops if (A[1][1] == 0)
What does the term 'Segmentation fault (core dumped)' mean?
How to validate the input type to receive integer only?
Store strings in binary file while keeping them alphabetically sorted So, supposing I have a C program that stores strings into a binary file.
Print Fahrenheit-Celsius Table in Reverse I have a question how to solve this objective. 
Trying to remove the use of malloc - is there an alternative here?
Display all unique number combinations of positive integer single digits, whose sum equals another positive integer using recursion in C
Extracting bytes from a 32 bits number This is not important and should be quite simple, I just don't understand what I'm doing wrong.
C intro - How to pass a parameter by reference in function?
Getting a segmentation fault when adding a piece of code that is working correctly
Write() in a file, the words occur twice I am current writing a file system, and init the disk.
what can i do to cause realloc to stop working?
C mysql prepared statement inserting null character I'm trying to set up a prepared statement based on some examples I found on the web.
Function returning garbage values but not all of them in C
Confusion over successfully writing to unallocated memory with malloc();
How to increment variable when term is completed
What is the Java equivalent of MB_LEN_MAX?
Understanting an efficient CRC-CCITT-16 implementation
Porting vsftpd to RustI'm porting a part of the vsftpd FTP server to Rust for my project.
Do-while loop reapeats as the value of the variable changes
Finding factorial of a number using recursive call in MIPS programming
Is there any complete example on how to use the G Streamer Gst Base Transform in C?
Accessing bits of Floating-point data - Unable to find a solution
Wrong Return Value for I2C_SLAVE and I2C_RDWR on Raspberry pi I am using Raspberry pi for I2C communication to a chip.
Windows File Write fails for volume sectors bigger than 0x1FFF 
reading from text file and using data in c to write arrray and structures in a given text file and retrieving it to us in calculation
Assigning a line in a text file to a variable in C
Parsing lines with read() system call C Linux I am trying to to take a file in C and read through it with the read() system call.
What is the correct usage of wake_up_interruptible() in linux kernel 4.12?
Incorrect Output in Filing when copying file a to file b
How to send uint8_t array from C to GO
What is the difference in search paths between target_link_libraries and find_library?
How to write a function that would check whether two arrays are horrizontally symmetrical?
Problem accessing linked list in C with a printf in a specific function (accessing memory problems)
getting garbage value while finding area of a circlei tried to find the area of the circle and found a garbage value. 
malloc() within if statement, assigned only if (if) is entered but valgrind says that bytes are lost In the context of an assignment using C, where I have to create a li clone, I am trying to access all of the names of the child files in my directory.
Is there an easier way to compile this projectUnder Linux(Ubuntu)
flaw in logic to display sum of arrayQ) Take input in 1D-Array from user, create new array for the sum of it's values , for e.g if array that is passed is : | 1 | | 2 | | 3 | then it should print |1| | 3| |6| , it will plus the content of array i.e 1+2 = 3, 1+2+3 = 6, it should not change the array[0] value.i tried to make the program but it have flaws
Having trouble with word function I am having trouble with creating a function that registers input as a word.
How to return a string to main function?
Process not standing by while using "read"
How do I handle an int** in Ada?
I need help about arrays
Build Apache APR 1.7 with Visual Studio (2017), IF_NAMESIZE undefinedTrying to build apr 1.7 on Windows with Visual Studio, tried 2017 and 2013.
Adding two rows and storing the sum in the last row
Code working as C-File but not as C++-File, Error: '__builtin_types_compatible_p' was not declared in this scopeI coded a macro, where I can use any amount of values.  
boundary tag being overwritten
lwip_select blocks even after socket is closed
C program getenv() returns null despite terminal echo working
Is it possible to manage indirect .h dependencies with 'touch' command?
How to execute two different functions at the same time using open mp in C
Compiler-error on Online Judge,"wimplicit-function-declaration"
What is the value of i which I am assigning to \0?
How can I just one header file based on some condition?
Header files verses LibrariesI know their are many differences between header files and libraries but is it safe to say that libraries contain compilable code and header files do not?
Is there a particular sequence in this row of numbers?
Visual Studio 2019 don't recognize ASCII charactersi have a problem with ASCII characters.
C - multiple warnings "pointer is missing a nullability type specifier" when compiling program, what do I do?
Why memset init partially?
MSP430F2418: Unable to set P2.3 pin to high I am using MSO430F2418 for my project.
C Program for calculating area & perimeter of a circle won't compile
I don't know how to iterate through the elements of an array while reading them
redeclaration of a functoin as int K&R 6.3In chapter 6.3 of K&R the function getword() is defined 
C/C++ Can not run a for loop in a for loop
Sequence of write or a single write I'm programming in C on a Unix system. 
How do I check if an int is evenly divisible by another int?
Optimization of C code for hypergeometric distribution
Why does this variable's value equal '0' and not '42?
How would I implement an FIR filter using single precision floating point in C code?
Why does 'emacs &' cause my program to crash - C? 
regcomp correct syntax
I am getting a uninitialized local variable error at line 210 and 135
Complex numbers (complex.h) and apparent lag of precision
linux kernel module not able to find "nvme_ns" struct I am writing a module in which I am accessing the nvme device using major and minor number.
Is it okay to use mmap() for 4Kb blocks all over the place or is it better to mmap() my whole file in one go?
Why are typedefs of nf_hookfn, nf_hook_ops, etc. missing from netfilter.h?I
Hash table doesn't remove I'm trying to make those 3 operations, add, remove and search.
Is it safe to use mmap and malloc to allocate memory in same program?
Why is swapping the pointers more efficient than copying the content of an array of strings?
How do i convert Binary to ASCII
File Descriptor passing with D Bus to python client I'm trying to access a file descriptor in python.
Go fish card transfer I have to create a go fish game in c.
Declaring void pointers to push type handling downstream
Typedef struct, pointers and passing pointers to a function
Bitmap writing program doesn't produce a readable image despite following format specifications
Make the input restore the previous one when hitting up arrow instead of ^[[A in Chow can i make the program expect the UP arrow key and place the previous input value on the current one?
C WIN32 close std handle or notafter using 'GetStdHandle(...)', should I use 'CloseHandle()' to close the generated handle for input or output or not?
Unable to compile under the eclipse/code composer studio
Code is doing more swapping compared to human-level method
Problems with Chinese character when use fopen/write I have to write config info to a file in Linux, while the config info contains Chinese characters.
why getchar() storing duplicate values in 2d array?
Different semantics between `char *` and `int *`I want to know why declaring and assigning a char * versus an int * in C have different semantics.
Why sqlite is allowing second process to do write operation while first process is already doing write
Get details from PKCS7 (CMS) via C++
What does inptr and outptr meanDoes anyone know what inptr and outptr mean?
sorting in ascending order using bubble sort with pointers
Collect2.exe error: ld returned 5 exit status I am creating an Operating System with BootLoader and Kerne l and a Linker.
Hitting return terminates 2 scanf("%[^\n]%*c")
Why char value increasing 3?
Error: AES Encryption key: invalid conversion from ‘char*’ to ‘unsigned char’ I'm trying to encrypt with AES using aes.h 
Behavior of sizeof on variable length arrays (C only)
How does a compiled c executible know how to represent a series of bits at a specific memory address?
Assembly mov instruction suffix?
How can I do scanf() to the elements of dynamic 2D array in C?
Find longest sub-array with no repetitions
Create a Portable Static Library from a Project Based on OpenCV Static Libraries
Unexpected error when i try to set parameters on a function to be default
Statically including SDL libraries into makefileI just have finished my summer project with using SDL libraries.
can't export glad symbols across dll I am compiling a dynamic library using several objects, one of which is compiled with glad.h/.c.
else section not activating if string length is larger than given parameters if statement
Why can't the first argument in sprintf be a char pointer in C I want to convert an integer to a string.
Segmentation fault(signal 11) I'm new to coding and started learning MPI through examples. 
In which section of a program does (const char const * pointer = "Hello") resides?
Recursive descent parser that counts the number of 'a' and 'b' characters not counting correctly
File systems in C in linuxI am writing codes in c using linux and trying to read from a file. 
Is there any limit on the iterations with seq_file
cannot set OID on symbolic reference when trying to fast-forward with libgit2Note: I tagged C and C++ since libgit2 is a C library and I'm writing a C++ wrapper for common git commands. We'll see here both C and C++ code and as far as I am concerned it does not matter if I get a C or C++ oriented solution (I'll adapt it myself if needed).
Is nel -= nel/2 functionally equivalent to nel /= 2?
Why can't multiple chars be assignable in an array?
running android script from C program
i2c stm32 nucleo unable to establish connection I am new to the whole stm32 environment.
How to use OpenSSL library without socket management?
Do I need to free a variable in a struct?
Copy into a struct the values of an array of char pointers I'm currently developing a simple DMBS as university project.
How to make button read a single click and not hold in arduino
error occured when adding -static flag to gcc
Behavior of conditional statement in the body of switch case (C language)
Not sure why optimizer is optimizing my method incorrectly
hiredis fails with TLS I have the following code for using Redis in C.
Implementing stack using data structures in C I'm trying to implement multiple stacks using data structures in C.
Value of declared but uninitialized int variable in c
conflicting types for an function
Stack 8MiB, then why this code "almost" works?
Calculating average times with clock()
Using getchar in C
C Make with AUTOMOC is removing my implementations 
How to make C look into a file and find a certain string?
Recursively removing the duplicate elements in a linked list
Looping through array and assigning certain values to another array
Rename file Preoperation Windows Minifilter driver
Adding variable to pointer is diffrent then adding a constant
What is the best way to mark macro as deprecated?
Reading sound card data on RaspberryPi using C I want to read the data generated by USB sound card connected to my RaspberryPi using a C code. 
Linked list with a memory leak I am struggling my head with this problem. 
How to initialize array size in a library in C?
Can an extern Function Pointer be used in a callback in the C language?
How to assign to the address of a pointed pointer the value stored at the address pointed by another pointer?
Version check of python
Missings in a definition of function which returns value - what type of error?
Using Linux crypto API from User Space for RSA I am looking for a way to call Linux kernel crypto API from user space for RSA encryption/decryption.
Opening a simple .exe file in notepad++ vs in Sublime Text 3 yields very different results
How to fix gibberish printed after use strtok I have uni project, I need to check if the syntax is right.
How to send a signal / interrupt from kernel built in module to a loadable kernel module?
Printing backtrace within signal handler in a release/optimized binary on Linux
How to print strings that have more consonants than vowels?
free memory used for struct in C but fails (code from C Primer Plus 6th Edition)
What to do when http header wrongly reports content-length
Segmentation fault (core dumped) when using YOLOv3 from pjreddie I want to use YOLOv3 algorithm for detection.
Setting up a workflow for autoformatting a git repository (C)
libcoi_device.so.0 Not found Compiling Error with Intel 19.0.4 OpenMP 5.0 Offloading
Copying characters using pointers causes segmentation fault
Declare dynamically sized array in global scope Not using C that often, I came across a possibly simple problem. 
How to detect empty line with strtok
What type of cast does *( char** ) achieve? What type of cast does *( char** ) accomplish?
Does linux "rename" function call block until copy(when source and target in different disks) is completed
how to take a linked list and a function pointer as inputs I am new to C and trying to learn function pointer.
Cannot retrieve data from .csv file
Error while executing code MSB6006 "CL.exeexecuted with code 2
How to receive data from tun interface to dpdk binded NIC?
Why the values are not stored properly in pointers when assigning values at runtime(using scanf) in C language?
Enable/Disable Hardware Lock Elision
comparing a specific character to a string
Can SHA256 EVP_DigestUpdate be used for small data blocks?
union integer member returns the data in union while float shows abnormality
Re-Initializing a const char array in C is not giving error
How to get root access on Android in JN I codeI added some Java code to get root access, just create a new process and execute su command. 
C Make and C Mocka standard assertions for compiling tests
Get vsnprintf() output part by part
how declaring an array as argument doesn't need a bound for the 1st dimension?
Stopping and starting loops in arduino
How to solve stdio.h not found for clang?
Isolating an instruction in one page
Value passed to function was changed
How to fix these error in this code palindrome problem to tell whether it is odd or even
Incorrect value everytime when esp32 wake up from deep sleep
What does scanf("%d/%d/%d) mean in C?
BPF verifier rejecting XDP program due to back-edge even though pragma unroll is used
Is there some short example of how to use prctl() when it comes to setting subreapers?
Problems with pointer into structure
Questions about MPI Non-blocking details based on standard So more recently, I have been developing some asynchronous algorithms in my research.
List and filter file using c REGEX expression
Assigning integer values from a file to an array using fgetc() I would like to get the numeric values from a .csv file and store them in an array.
Parse CSV into dynamically allocated array of structures (ANSI 89)
Mixing Swift and C: how to declare C-function as a parameter in Swift function the easiest way
pointer de-referencing balagurusamy What is the trouble with pointer dereferencing when, not dereferencing a pointer when required.
FFTW results differ from FFT in MATLABI compare the forward FFT using FFTW and MATLAB fft. 
Сhanging even and odd characters in a string array
Is it possible to compress binary files with Huffman-encoding?
to find the total no of letter in a string.
Precise conversion of 32-bit unsigned integer into a float in range (-1;1)
Getting information (types, values...etc) on members of C type structI would like to get some help on C-style struct.
C build pipes for command 'ls -lR [-ddir] | sort | grep string [ >outfile]'
How can I move all vowels from a string to a different array
Adding C external Library in Visual Studio code
String Manipulation (Compare two string and copy common string) I have to take 3 strings, a 'haystack' string, a 'needle' string, and a buffer string.
Replicating C Fixed-Point Math in Python I am attempting to replicate a DSP algorithm in Python that was originally written in C.
Array of Function Pointers error: Initialization from incompatible pointer type
Do FILE * continue to work if the fd linked to them is used for some other purpose?
checking the neighboring elements of a 2D array element without going over an element more than oncesay I have a 2D array, size 5X5.
gprof output shows a nonexistent call graph edge
How do I parse three values from a string in C using sscanf when one is in double quotes?
Implement Objective-C (CoreML) in C++ (Adobe plugin)
Sieve of Eratosthenes with multithreading in C/Linux
getchar() function to count characters in C I have a code that counts the number of characters.
Unable to compile program with <ncurses.h> header using MinGW I am using this program https://github.com/aviikc/CIS2500_fileeditor.
How do you solve recursion which are not void
How long does it take to calculate one frame (parallelized on CPU and GPU) when applying box blur?
call C code from Python via ctypes, use python object list
Why am I getting 'segmentation error' while using double pointer as an argument for a 2-D array?
Remove Duplicate Edges In Graph Data Structure
Why function call only pass the first argument
Division algorithm for calculating quotient without keeping track of remainder
C issue: Program terminates itself
Allow "Special Characters" in C language on Windows
Send confirmation message from pc2 to pc1 unicast
How to copy an array of floats from c# to a C dll
macOS: Keep XPC Service (bundled) running after user quits main app
SocketCAN: Filtering of frames with certain CAN IDs not working
How does the size of memory region argument in read() and write() affect the IO performance?
Handling math errors in C I would like to implement a numerical algorithm in C and I am having some issues regarding error handling.
Implementing a count sort is crashing my program every time, cannot spot malloc/free error
How does indirect manipulation of dynamically allocated string literals truly work in C?
Need help to split a string by delimiter (and keep the delimiter in the token list)
What is the "debugger finished with status 1"I defined "true" gdb.exe from minGW folder to Settings > Debugger Settings > Executable Path so, debugging problem is solved.
Undefined reference to 'addVectors(Vector,Vector) 'I can not solve these "undefined reference to" problem.
What is the proper way to send an AT command with termios and get the reply
C: Cannot read from 2 pipe file descriptors without losing the other oneI have C code that is simulating the bash command ls | wc.
Struct or matrix for a register?
Probability of happening function
How do bit fields interplay with bits padding in C
How to pass a string as a parameter of query
if statement always true even with right inputs?
Solve for a and b in n = a + (a+1) + (a+2) + … + bGiven n, how can we find non-negative integers a and b such that n = a + (a+1) + (a+2) + … + b using simple C code?
Forcing an array size in a function parameter in C when passing an array Context
Difference between "call by reference" and global variables Can anybody tell me the advantages or disadvantages of the following two C code snippets?
Trouble linking C global variables with C++ code
Getting Syntax Error in flex/bison with this grammar
Priority of static functions in CLet's say that you have a file File1.c with a static function Foo and that the function is called within File1.c. 
Do I need to iterate over getaddrinfo()?
how Can I fix non-scalar type conversion error
How can I check a page permission in user mode in C?
Why a lot of BST functions returns the root and don't use double pointer?
How can I compile this program in C with Oracle Solaris 10 1/13 s10s_u11wos_24a SPARC
An Example of Negatively Correlated Programs
How to include .h files while creating bdf file in Parasoft I am using a Linux environment to for running Parasoft. 
How to replace a multi-character character constant with one character
How would I keep totalCalc from resetting?
Need help for creating recursive function without multiple returns
How do I use my .so library in my Xamarin.Android project?
How to read data as characters from a text file and then divide each character by an int
GCC/Clang 'labels as values' computing offsets at runtime
My "Guess the password" is not working, how to fix it?
Does recursive functions have some limitations? eg: how many layers does the function require?
Unexpected syntax error during macro expansion
Using a while loop to check the content of struct
How to read data (either binary or text) in C from a file written in Java?
Understanding how to use CGI programming with C and HTML
Why IntPtr cannot be used when in subsequent call
How to Tell if There Are Processes Waiting in a Semaphore in C Is there any way to check if there are processes waiting inside a semaphore in C?
Filter user processes from kernel processes and system daemon
Remove fisheye distortion when calculating vectors for raymarching I am trying to write an opencl kernel for raymarching.
Can I use cmocka to mock a function that returns a struct?
Calculating the truth value of a statement
How to wake up a task sleeping with schedule_hrtimeout before the timeout occurs in linux kernel?
Multiple definition of functions I have use 1 header file and 2 code files.
Check if environment has passed to execvI try to do some homework exercise about creating a process with execv in linux.
How to generate a pre-processor definition using arithmetic?
How come the following program output is 5, not 4?
Is 'a' representing 1 in "ch = input[c] - 'a' "?
MPI_Op_create: candidate function not viable. 
How to read a file into an array of structs?
how to solve codeblocks unable to run a graphics c program properly I had setup codeblocks for graphics programming.
Why doesn't this assert macro work for integers less than or equal to 0, but works for values bigger than INT_MAX?
How can I sort an array that depends on another, with qsort?
How to print several lines to stdout while overwriting what was printed before?
Implementing a graph with adjacency list in C
Thread entry point called twice for one thread in array
How to create an instance of a Python class in C/C++ API?
Is there a way to stop fread reading characters into an array in a struct following a whitespace?
C text alignment with padding I have a simple function to print text.
How to start gvim without terminal?
How to make the cursor move back up 1 lineExample,
Converting Decimal to Hexadecimal in C and printing Arrays
Can I perform operations on a character array and individual characters after passing by reference to another function?
why getchar() function work different in a loop?
How can I simplify following C codes?
I can't print, is the data not inserted or is there something wrong in the loop?
Storing data in a struct or txt file?
Monte Carlo integration returning incorrect values, problem overwriting memory
i want develop a python script which compiles and runs c programs using gcc
Fix this Compile Error: identifier "and" is a special operator name in C++ [-Werror=c++-compat]?
How does strcat() works internally in C?
Struct zero initialization methodsIs
What's the warning under -fgcse about invoking -O2 on programs that use computed gotos?
What is the proper way to pass dynamically allocated pointers to pthreads
Telnet refuses Connection I am setting up a spell check program and am having trouble with connecting to a server that houses the program. 
In C, I am not sure how the output of a pointer is being updated?
What is Significance of _v(l) in the macro?
Is there a way to run a PHP site from a batch file with a local webserver?
How to allocate an array of structs with flexible array members comformingly?
Modding classes and inheritance into C
How can a parent-process find out if the child-process was terminated?
How to use ESC sequences to set foreground colors?
Where is the code for recycling `rbinom` inputs?
What does "O_DIRECT 512-byte aligned" mean?
C programming, segmentation fault when manipulating strings
segfault when reading last line of file using fgets()
Usage of pointers as parameters in the strcpy function.
Is this a valid way of checking if a variadic macro argument list is empty?
Will a C/C++ compiler optimise code by reusing a recently calculated function result?
How do i make my program read in value=judges
How can I copy memory data from pointer to array ASSEMBLY 8086
Is there something that resembles std::lock_guard in native C?
How to produce a random food in a snake game on c?
To use a library using src code without installing it I am trying to use a c library libpostal.
Problem linking static library vs dynamic library
Print from recursion combination with list in C
How to let C Make / C Test memcheck exit with status code 1 on failure?
program does not scans the number 149, and for any other number it returns 0
passing argument makes pointer from integer without a cast / expected ‘double *’ but argument is of type ‘int’
Adding then deleting a line in text file with C
Represent decimal numbers using integers
How to implement the following C code in Python?
Accessing typedef struct elements I have declared a tydef struct as shown below.
Doxygen - parse everything regardless of preprocessor directive
Why calculating time of FFT is shorter than element-to-element multiplication in intel MKL?
Problem trying to call user function using ptrace - nanosleep causes crash
Query cursor position with GTK Is there a way to query the cursor position using the GTK C libraries?
Converting hexadecimal char IP to binary
Displaying content of file in C - write access error I am trying to print the entire contents of a file in C that was stored in a previous function.
Best Fit Algorithm Implementation.
static declaration of ‘close’ follows non-static declaration static inline int close(int sock)
Usage of extern functions for portability I have seen some libraries for microcontrollers that do a special job like controlling an SPI device. 
Compiler warns that my function will never execute
When and why would the C linker exclude unused symbols?
Recvfrom working locally, but don't receive anything on random ports between executions
How do I inject a catchable exception in Python from C with C Python API?
Getting Undefined symbols for architecture x86_64 while trying to use function from a header file in main.c
Weird Loop While scanfI wrote this code.
Multiple pointers and Mark & Sweep
C++ Array unknown operation
gcc is not recognized even after setting PATH variable. What is left?
C Make: undefined reference to img_LOAD, while libraries are found
Loop not ending when using a size_t variable I used a size_t variable to help me do my project.
why everyone process epoll event with an order of read, write, error?
Finding duplicates with pointers
How to remove first element from min heap in C?
Confusion about setbuf example of invalid use from man page
Why this function returns always 0
Reading data from a text file line by line into arrays using strtok in C
how to use fprintf in terminal (Mac OS) I'm using esc ANS I code, ao I need to run my program via terminal. 
Issues creating a linked list using a function Below is my code to try and create a linked list of 10 integers. 
f write keeps writing undesired text into my file
What is the calling convention for extern "C" in C++?
Segmentation error while compiling c code with pointersint main()
Using calloc() to create dynamic struct utmp array [duplicate]
Is there any function in C that is equivalent to icacls command prompt?
Fastest precise way to convert a vector of integers into floats between 0 and 1 Consider a randomly generated __m256i vector. 
Rotate about Y-Axis glu Look At I am trying to rotate the viewer about the y-axis.
Output from fork() in cI recently ran into this piece of code, and don't fully understand it. 
What to change to make my C program more user-friendly?
Print from struct passed by value in CTL;DR:
C Program to count keywords from a keyword text file in a separate file and display them So this is a school assignment. 
Local int vs Global int in C
callback function for mosquitto c APIs is not getting called For some reason, I had to use C APIs in C++ code.
Does c flow generate a sound call graph from C programs?
How to receive standard input from keyboad properly in a child process?
How to compare user input to an array, checking to see if its less that last input I have to request user input for 10 different numbers.
Reading lines after a spaceI have been trying to read the lines of a file.
subtracting two pointers(arrays), (C language)
Freeing allocated memory causes the program to get stuck in Visual Studio but not in Code Blocks
Anagram tester in C I am trying to implement an anagram tester in C. 
is it possible to overwrite MFT file table in windows api? is it possible to overwrite MFT file table in windows api. When windows is up and ready?
Program returning wrong numbers
How to concatenate two string array index by index in C?
Having trouble printing out my structure array in c
Parallel timer creation crashes kernel I've added a timer to kernel module responsible for TCP sockets creation in order to monitor its parameters.
How to fix 'expected identifier or '(' before 'int'' error in a struct returning functionI am creating C code to output diameter, area, circumference from a single function.
Can you put stack allocated values into a heap allocated array I was wondering if I had a heap allocated array and I passed it into my function. 
How to assign 1D array to a 2D array?
How to suspend the main-loop in a signal-driven demon?
How to use the LLVMBuildGEP function in the LLVM C API
Do I have to fseek several times if I want to access different piece of information in a file?
Turning array in main into a global, to later be altered by main?
How can I use a character pointer and input a string into it? Is there any way I can do this without using dynamic memory allocation?
How do characters store values when being compared to each other in an if else?
Measure overhead without pthread in C
Conversion from uint64_t to doubleFor an STM32F7, which includes instructions for double floating points, I want to convert an uint64_t to double.
functions to execute command and print output
How to do multithreading with getcontext() and setcontext()?
Is GCC warning on const qualifier correct?
VGA Display problem in my custom OS kernelI am developing an Operating System as a hobby project.
Finding an elements within a range using O(n) runtime
C - scanf() takes two inputs instead of one
Pass by address (pointer)void fun(char* name)
Find how many nodes at a certain height in a left child-right sibling tree?
Why can I separate digits with an apostrophe in C++ but not C?
Why we need add 1 to background brush color?
Merge sort with OpenMP So I am making a program that sorts an aryay with 100.000.000 intengers using the  merge sort algorithm. 
Wrap several functions with difference argument counts in on wrapper function
Can anyone explain me the output of this code?
How to pass a 2d array returned in a C function to python using ctypes
Foreach macro on macros arguments
Are there any other types of console events?
OR and less than operators not working as intended C language
How to avoid memory leaks in C GTK (using libxml)
How can I deallocate an irregular ***matrix without knowing it's size?
While loop increment and decrement
Why in order to read multiple lines of a text with fgets we need to set fgets()!=NULL?
Is there a function that can convert numbers inputted from char array to an int array?
User puts float into integer variableI am using gcc compiler on Linux Ubuntu.
Mallo c large space of struct and accessing it like arrays in c I'm dealing with implementing a hash table.
Wno-pointer-arith flag handled differently between different gcc versions
My code doesnt replace one word with another correctly
Bubble sort is not sorting array properly in c I'm trying to write a program for my C class that tracks deposits made at a bank.
C - all combinations of numbers from user's input number
Store and work with Big numbers in C 
I don't understand some parts of the code I'm trying to understand a code from a programming site.
Is there a way to receive all kinds of data types?
Crashing program does not generate core dumpI wrote a C program that sometimes dies after a few days.
Why is my programme showing Segmentation Fault on Ubuntu but working fine on Geeks IDE?
In checkout function g_tot calculation brings garbage valueIn this code at checkout function g_tot calculation brings garbage value.
Why child process pipe is showing in parent process with different pipe details I am learning c program fork and pipe.
Unexpected program outputI suspect my program is not working properly. 
Efficiently escaping quotes in C before passing to mysql_query
Win32: Accessing a partition beyond the end of a volume?
Randomised solar system simulation collision detection issue
MPI: Waitany is not reacting to ibcast call The following code is a Implementation of a Master/Worker pattern.
Can I write to two different FILE pointers at once?
Why does it prints 10 instead of 3?
How to pass 2D array (matrix) in a function in C?
Program returns -1073741819 when using strcat in C This is the whole function.
Why do I get a segmentation fault when writing to a "char *s" initialized with a string literal, but not "char s[]"?
DMB instructions in an interrupt-safe FIFO Related to this thread, I have a FIFO which should work across different interrupts on a Cortex M4. 
Extract a subarrayI have managed to transfer the 2d array int a 1d array to make it simpler.
using free() function causes runtime error
macro with structure definition missing '()' - QAC error
How is stored resource type in php How stored Resource type in php? Is it string in memory or some structure? 
Linux asynchronous epoll() server having problems when EPOLLRDHUP occurrs
I am trying to build a 2*2 array but my program asks for 5 inputs. Why?
Exception Unhandled In Visual Studio the f scanf gives me this error
what does asterisk( printf ("%s\n",*argv) ) means? what does asterisk(*++argv) mean?
How to fix? Triggers exception when trying to free dynamic allocated memory
Does AND(&&) inside an If-Statement get checked in the order I type it?
Does C Make compile everything in the included headers into the executable or only the parts used in the main class?
How to write string to file in different lines in C
How to check if a file is in a specific directory or its subdirectories in C
How do you do a power of 1/2 in C?
Why does this online compiler allow me to compile the code even if the functions are not declared before the main?
What is the diffrence between a concurrent tcp client server program and an iterative one?
Storing characters in array using pointers I am supposed to create an array with the fixed size (let’s say 5x5).
Trouble figuring out integer parsing function
Can we add custom objects in BG96 LwM2M implementation?
Understanding memory maps I'm very new to C programming and investigating continuously increasing RSS size. 
How to calculate running time in C language 
Reading file content line by line into a matrix
C - forward declare and use struct not pointer
Implementing circular lists and how to delete a middle node in a list
Visual Studio Unable to read memory for certain members of struct.
Pointer initialization concept in C Why is this erroneous?
C Why does passing first address of array to char pointer provide whole string?
What is the error? Q-To determine and print the sum of the following harmonic series for a given value of n.(1+1/2+1/3+........+1/n)
How to compress floating point data?
C File Name with multiple periods Simple question.
How to set base address of a matrix?
Clang Static Analyzer False Positive with bit-fields (C-code) I am wondering if the following example is a Clang SA false positive, and if so, is there a way to suppress it? 
Extra variables lead to segmentation fault
Problems with High-Speed PWM Module
Get the shared library name from a function in the library
Weird behaviour with strings and structs I've been having problems with the code below, and i would like to understand why it doesn't work. 
Why does fread() give seemingly random data?
What's difference between "*variable" and "*variable[]" in C?
How does the stack_overflow() function work?
C: Is it possible to merge/group certain elements from a char array so it is a string array?
C: Correct way to process 24-bit 2's complement number I have a sample set of 32-bit data in the format 24-bit, 2’s complement, MSB first.
process synchronization with 2 pipes I'm doing an assignment.
C- Incorporating realloc with string pointers I'm working on a problem about modifying strings with dynamic memory allocation.
malloc causes int to change value I'm a bit new to C, and have been working on a project when I came across a weird behavior which I'd love to understand.
Can anyone explain this recursive function I can't understand how does it return anything?
How can I pass the data type in a generic linked list to the GDB print command?
C Make Lists.txt Access GSL Library C Trying to use GSL (Ubuntu 18.04) with C Make.
Cannot access memory at addresschar* dayOfProgrammer(int year)
compressing a char into two bits only I'm trying to figure out how to compress a char (which is normally 1 byte) to 2 bits only.
Input from a file (using command line) and then normal stdin keyboard input (C)
Complete the source code below to build a program that prints out the first string, in lexicographical order
Multithreaded Perfect Numbers I created a multithreaded program to check whether a number is a perfect number.
C - Double type variables : same formulas, different values EDIT
printing doubles from a function outside of main
Binary Tree Bin Packing Algorithm in C
Most efficient way to check for a win in a variable size tic-tac-toe grid?
I2c eeprom file missing in user-space - SFP module I have some linux kernel & SFP/I2C driver issue.
how to check for a range within a set of non overlapping ranges in constant time
How to draw Ice Cream with OpenGLAs the question, how to draw the 3d ice cream?
Write a simple Linux shell in c I have an assignment, to create a simple linux shell using exec() that runs basic commands (e.g ls, ps) without arguments.
How do you ask the User multiple questions in C?
Why am I limited to an arbitrary small array size when initializing an array with a const length in C?
C - Filling array from specific single line input I am a novice and for my school programming exercise I need to make integer array from specified input.
C program - causes crash with Pointer
Memory addresses I am workin on Overthewire narnia2(ctf game).
C pointers: copy strings
graphics.h library Process returned -1073741819 (0xC0000005) I want to start writing code using functions from the graphics.h library in Code::Blocks.
Creating array of character pointers Please tell me what's wrong with this code.
Why do I get -1 when recvfrom() from a multicast group address?
Calling C functions from C++ constexpr functions I'm porting a project from one build system to another, but using the same compiler (gcc 4.9, using C++14).
How to print packet info of a specific IP address in netfilter using C?
scanf only reads first field I want to read in two strings with scanf and store them in two variables.
openCL Kernel segmentation fault in pi calculation
BASIC C loops - Why is the else part of my code being run when another if statement is true
Function will not print specific list
Why would adding a send() call make a previous send() call fail?
Optional [] square brackets for a C MacroIs it possible to have a optional [/d] parameter for a macro?
C choosing variable type at run-time I have this piece of code below which seems very explicit and redundant, is there a way to choose variable type at run-time?
Two files into one line output of each in C program
Dynamic memory access only works inside function
Finding the Average in a sequence of number in c while ignoring the negative numbers in the sequence
C 2D Arrays removing certain predetermined rows by shifting the ones below it
SIGSEGV Error while running function in Ci begginer at c programing and while i am runing my C program i got strange error
Trying to find prime numbers
How do I call a Java Native Interface C function from my Go code?
Integral type error when adding float to integer
`dirent.h` in multiple directories I searched dirent to find C routines 
How do I use a users input to open a text file and then load it into a 2D array?
My global function written in Cuda only run the last blockSolved: Sorry, it's my fault, I should use atomicAdd(times,1); instead of *times++ in the kernel function.
Why is this statement correct? 
How do I use the free() function in c?
FFMPEG RTSP Server using muxing doc example I am trying to develop RTSP server using FFMPEG. 
Allocating memory to a 2D array in C Why can't I allocate each index of a 2D array individually.
access to process' arguments outside main() Is it possible to access process' arguments elsewhere than inside main function? 
string read from struct crashes when system("CLS")
Why is it ok to use a string literal to initialize an unsigned char array but not to initialize an unsigned char pointer?
C: How can I make it so scanf() input has one of two formats?
How to make a coordinate system for a labyrinth?
Converting struct to pointer of member type
Add character after specific character in string (max 1string,array)
how to pass space seprated substring of string as aguments of a function in c
C language about input ouput with prinf function i exactly type yes but why can't i see output?
How to correctly compare 2 doubles?
get time of day returns inaccurate result I'm having a very strange issue. 
How to read from Windows Named Pipe with timeout?
Making a function for updating the moves of a 2-D array tic-tac-toe table
Calculating the number of interrupts within 1 sec from process context
How to write non-ascii from stdin to file properly
result of arithmetic operation like: 1/3 in C float variable
Fscan with structure
Size of malloc'd chunk seems wrong
How to make transmission code about CAN protocol
How do function pointers in C work?
Linux wait queues... does ordering matter?
Configuration of the input capture functionality of PIC18F46K22
Evaluating an expression using a stack (C) I need to make a stack that evaluates expression in the same way it would in racket. 
System V AMD64 ABI floating point varargs order
Using fgets() to recieve a sentence input I seem to be having an issue with some code.
C Stack Manager Project: file I/O with syscalls problems
C program taking in three integers and seeing if they make a triangle and a right angle
Assigning string to char* in structure
What happens if a word truncates an int?
Quick sort recursive function in C - doesn't work with big number of elements Has this function been written correctly? 
How do I create bcrypt hash in C and storing them Since a similar question, was regarded as off-topic...
Even Fibonacci Numbers - Project Euler ,Getting some error 
Problems with non-atomic access example on GNU website
Improving mmap memcpy file read performance I have an application that sequentially reads data from a file.
Tensorflow C API: SessionRun batch size (how to properly set)
Fatfs significant slow down in directories with many files
Declared a self referential struct in 'header.h' file and trying to define it in 'main.c' and this causes error"main.c"
Minimum Maximum Mark I need to find the maximum and minimum mark from 5 integers which are inputted by the user.
ntohl() and htonl() in Ruby?
Problem of _do_fork() in Linux kernel module programming
How to delete nodes in a doubly linked list
How to record thousand of information by using Structure?
freeing malloc'd memory causes other malloc'd memory to garbage
Unable to build Allegro C++ program in Visual Studio 2010
Invalid conversion 'void*' to 'struct*' 
How do design a IF statement for a condition to only print out a specific type of file from my directory?
meaning of Immediate Operand of Cast I was looking at this SO post.
Segmentation fault for radix sort C I'm trying to run radix sort by splitting digits into 8 but numbers and sorting it. 
C Pointers: Exception Thrown: Read access violation
Why does GNU dd reuse file descriptors 0 and 1 with dup2?
Issues regarding the use of memory in C
Shortest difference between elements of an array I am new to online judges.
How to combine a strings and store it in a array after using strtok() from a "full string" in C
C - Error in Comparing Variable of Struct and String
How to change new to malloc?
Makefile, better understanding rulesReading the official documentation 
infinite loop when using free() in while loop
String and for loop
Need to understand one usage of pthread_mutex_lock() and pthread_cond_wait() and pthread_cond_signal()
Why am I getting Segmentation fault for using array of char pointers?
Return vector from pthread function?
How does fscanf() deal with double values?
Dijkstra's algrotithm for unweighted graphs
GCC 8 Invalid Result of Implicit int to float cast 
Function printf() to print backspace problem
Linux userspace example for rpmsg-lite protocol
Get Min and Max label in from the array loop
C programming language excercise1-18 Hi guys i am reading The C programming language by Kernighan and Ritchie and trying to solve along the questions.
Invalid next size with realloc function
Implement a pipe in C: Is it necessary to fork?
JNI - How to convert 'jint' argument to 'unsigned int' C type value
Socket Programming C, receiving messages is carrying over from previous messages
how memory allocation is done
Unicode Box Drawing characters not printed in Ruby I work on a game in Ruby. 
Why does sizeof() not return the length of an array?
How to assign task for each thread without forcefully using c I.e each thread need to take some work after completion of first work?
sscanf with colon delimeter I'm a newbie to C Programming.
Counting the amount of times a number appears in a 2D array C
C: How to use sizeof to split a char? I have a char array which I want to split for every 16 bytes. How is that done in C?
Stack/Frame pointer as external variable Currently, I was writing some logging logic and wanted to make some indentation. 
Weird behavior of right shift in C (sometimes arithmetic, sometimes logical) GCC version 5.4.0
Run exec command on php I'm trying to run exec() from my php file. 
How do I return a pointer to an array of struct in C?
c reading a file using fgets, strtok causes segmentation fault
SDL2 iOS multitouch second finger down not detected
Why Converting command char double pointer to char is not working in case of command line argument?
C - Loop through void* knowing element size
How to fix SIGSEGV in C in this situation?
Assigning an array's head pointer to an existing array in a union, in C I'd like to "equate" two arrays, where one is inside a fixed union (should not be changed).
How can I fit a return statement in a ternary conditional?
Gstreamer RTSP `gst-launch-1.0` Equivalent C CodeI am currently working on a project using NVIDIA Deepstream that involves GStreamer. 
cs50 pset5 unload problem - memory leakage I am trying to solve the cs50 pset5.
understanding command execution in shell implementation
How to print string into an array after used the isdigit?
gets() function using getchar from assembly I'm having some problems making a gets() function on a C code i'm doing for one of my classes. 
How do I call this function with the arguments (void (*store) (int*,int))?
printing same float value always
Makefile with different header directories?
C extracting odd digit from integer
At least two timesI'm doing part where I just can't figure out how can I count if at least 2 times some character has shown up.   
How to check an input for a specific data type?
realloc of array inside a structI
Why isn't timespec_get defined on any C compiler on my Mac?
Define the following modules to display the system’s summary.
Enable a linux service to show popup window
Two questions about basic C programs1.
Can a loop create a new, different array each time it runs?
What is this zero-invariant modulus function called?
Why does the GCC Compiler allows us to declare zero length strings (directly) and negative length strings (indirectly)?
C Linker optimization with libraries Suppose I have a function foo() in some C library and I am statically linking this library to some executable, but there is no call to this method from library or from the code within the executable. 
skipping functions in return sequence of callersIn a sequence of function calls, such as
How to set a debugger flag on C build?
Is this a proper implementation of a DeleteList function?
Valgrind : Conditional jump or move depends on uninitialised value(s) occurs even I initializing the memory
Error importing stdlib.h from Swift Bridging Header (Linux)
Clang + pycparser fail to parse pythread.h header from CPython 3.7Clang + pycparser fail to parse pythread.h header from CPython 3.7, but this was working in CPython 3.7-dev in Travis CI.
issue with multiplying a define by a negative number
**Assertion `!xcb_xlib_threads_sequence_lost' failed** while running graphics program in C
Scan value from a text file into structure
Program always outputs 0 value
Is it safe to fread 0 bytes into a NULL-pointer? In my environment, the following code runs fine, but is it guaranteed to be okay?
C MACRO evaluationI wish to declare a statically allocated array.
C - Unexpected results with fork and sleep functionsI found this Redirect ouput to another instance termina
C - pointer to array: how to copy just the value (not address) of one pointer to another?
What are compiler flags to see pure C code generated from Objective-C?
How to check that two arbitrary memory ranges are not overlapped in c/c++
How to compile files with GLFW in Linux?
Number of elements in a static array
Segmentation fault while using getchar
Accessing the C Interface from the C/C++ BLPAPI SDK
Inotify ordering guaranteeI have a directory
Access data of double pointers array
What terminating condition for this recursive flood fill implementation?
Accessing process stack pointer from kernel space
Alocating array positions to splinted words after using the strtok function
Does offsetof require pointer derefence?
Converting data to code
Segmentation fault when removing trailing whitespace from string in c
How does C exactly run?
C : how Get OS name ( Ubuntu, Debian,Centos,.. ) and if Definition OS name = ubuntu I want to write a script with C.
How to increase the font-size of a button or label in a gtk3 program in C?
Creating a related x-macro from an existing one
How to pass non const dynamic multidimensional array to function wanting const multidimensional array?
c-how to read and write at the same time in multiple pipes?
Scanf Specific Error Condition on Character Input
u-boot: how to access 'bootcount' from linux userspace?
Makefile Giving Duplicate Error C
How can I print a dangling pointer, for demonstration purposes?
Program crashing at realloc
Dealing with multiple fork()s For an exercise, I have to write a program that compares two files in parallel.
How to use strtok in text file
array where each even index powered by 2, odd index powered by 3
C Make error while linking C code with CUDA I am having linking errors while building a project using c make.
scanf and no switch case is executed in c
How to fill a 2D array without using a for loop?
Difference between Node->next!=NULL and Node!=NULL in C
Searching a char value inside char array in C
Cython from C pass unsigned char array to Python
Kernel Module which opens a script when inserting an USB-Stick 
C's open overwriting file to be opened and fdopen returning NULL
Fibonacci Sequence using Linked List crashes after linked list is destroyed.
Why do fgets reads my first input in scanf?
concatenate two integers in hexa and save them in long long int C
C macros using enum
C program stuck in infinite-loop-like nautre but without printing any variables
Swift doesn't allow function overloading in objective-c or c headers
C code to relocate the vector table
How do I open/write/read a uart device from a kernel module?
Why I am only seeing the first character
C fcntl() not working? 
5*1 matrix of 2d array in cwhen i am working with 2d arrays.
How to get hello on DB410C and Chip select pin of DB410c is high.
Deleting Elements from an Array based on their Position every 3 Elements
Cant see printf in mplabX IDE anywhere... Why?
MySQL assumes partial `pwrite()` means disk is full
How to make code say 'invalid input' when a user enters a character or a string (Validate)
How to wait for network packet with GNU-EFI simple networking
Strange Clang behavior.
Gradle: How to designate a output directory for C/C++ object files?
cannot understand this error
ARM Cortex M7 unaligned access and memcpy
Assign an Int from a Double Pointer (Pointer to Pointer) in C
Difference between Debug and Release when exporting C++ functions from DLL as C
Why the switch statement displays default in this C calculator?
Problems with global-variables affecting Unit Test results
Unnamed unix domain socket has wrong address length
C socket to handle full recvBeej's guide/ tutorial on Socket Programming gives a readily usable snippet on sending all data over send.
Replace Function Pointers with Functions Which level is the best place to do points-to analysis and replace function pointers with real functions?
Splitting string into tokens ignoring substrings wrapped in ""I am creating my own command line parser and I am splitting substrings with strok() and delimiters of \t (whitespaces)
Post increment behaviorRecently, I upgraded my project from gcc 4.3 to gcc 5.5.
How do I link to a library with Code::Blocks?
How to best enhance my program to take advantage of strcmp's timing optimization?
Struct variable
Second pthread won't enter second loop I'm facing a problem with my threads. 
Function Overload C multiple argumentsI like to voverload a C function.
Handle ambiguous struct declarations while debugging C code
Can the address of a variable with automatic storage duration be taken in its definition?
How to move a star pattern horizontally?
Why I can create a shared memory bigger than the size mounted on /dev/shm using POSIX?
Opening a file pointer for logging macro in header file
Can't find the segmentation fault in my code
Can not find libraries in C code
Generating an array of random numbers using two functions
Looking for alternative to set of nested #ifdef-s
Why does gcc create a new stack for each function?
EFM32 Gecko Starter Kit USART1 Receive not working (EFM32G890F128)
delete specific node from doubly linked list (in c) - can't delete tailI am trying to delete just one node from a doubly linked list.
Custom code to read and write physical address memory on linux I have try to access physical memory directly.
Can I pass the values of a matrix to another matrix by simultaneously indexing both matrices in c?
expanding a struct the right way
Integer value changes during insertion to array
sizeof unsigned int is 8
Creating a Singly Linked List with Data from a Filestream
C Makefile linker error -I'v written the Makefile below. I'm getting the following error during compilation. I'm not sure what IBS is? 
Is the conditional move optimization against the C standard?
Read string from index 1 in C 
Measure time (in clock ticks) with contikiI tried to measure the time of some operations on the telosB platform.
Scheduled events to ALSA sequencer are not being outputted
How do I prevent asprintf writing over variables on heap?
Understanding the inlining with gcc (inlined function assembly code present in binary?)
fread can't read an object from file Task is to read a map from a file and then display it.
Struct Sizes conflict 
How to close child processes with exit(0)
Different results on different computers
Why `mysqli_query()` returns null? How can i figure it out?
Why does sizeof(MACRO) give an output of 4 bytes when MACRO does not hold any memory location?
OpenCL: How to distribute a calculation on different devices without multithreading
How does C parse command line arguments?
C - Eliminating Loop Stutter?
C: Reading 128 bit value from flash address
Is floating point math broken?
array value not updatingI have a strtok implementation (sort of), but it doesn't print the token!
How Get arguments value using inline assembly in C without Glibc? How Get arguments value using inline assembly in C without Glibc?
How to make signal handler only run it once and terminate all processes?
C Saving Data from a Text File into an Array of Structures I want to ask about file processing and struct in C language. 
Process list of strings from R to C
Capturing data being written to open file descriptor
What is the significance of the .h extension in header files?
What is the transformation of uint via RGBA8_SNORM in glTexImage2D-glGetTexImage round-trip?
What is the correct way to link assembly code with C code using gcc
Porting uint from c to c
list function' lists a different function?
How to rebuild newlib and newlib-nano of GNU Arm Embedded Toolchain
What does using ampersand (&) with minus operator achieve?
Allocating memory to 2D array using an array of NULL (c)thanks for taking the time in reading this.
Calling Malloc from Within a Wrapper Macro
segmentation fault on array c I am pretty new to programming and this is a college assignment.
GEMM with single-precision and double-precision matrix in BLAS
Truncated value is being stored
Launched Failed.Binary not found in EclipseI just installed Eclipse and I get this error whenever I hit the button run: Launched Failed.Binary not found.
Open() with O_WRONLY blocks even though I open() with O_RDONLY on the other end
fail to output expected **argv in C
Pointer to function Prototype
Return type in case of Callback functions
Linux: Buffer overflow of simple C program is giving SIGBUS I am a beginner in binary exploitation, and I'm training for the exploitation of buffer overflows.
C putchar doesn't work after stdout is redirected
C Linked List error not linking properly
Generic functions taking unknown type parameters in C
Segmentation fault 11 crashing in for loop
glReadPixels() couldn't obain the A's value which outputng from fragement shader.sush as
Difference between struct tcphdr and struct tcp
Can not understand why im getting exception thrown error
Array of struct with pointer type
Advantage of using compound assignment
Why don’t we have to call main function in C?
C program using getopt can't resolve url parameter
Cannot run C programs on MIST architecture
EVP encryption core dumped
stack corruption detected Fatal signal 6 (SIGABRT)
Error message appears as 'struct IteratorG' has no member named next
Getting "missing braces around initializer" when initialize a linkedlist
Eclipse; Escape Sequences don't work?
How to force Cmake execute a top-level C Make Lists.txt of a multi component dependency?
Improper Initialization of 2D Array in C I am trying to construct a 2D array for an assignment. 
Why this C program with "abort()" does not crash?
How to release memory while preserving virtual address range?
Why the size command didn't list a stack or heap segment for any executable or object file?
Volatile pointer points to non volatile data
MPI combined non-blocking send and receive with waitall in C
Initialize type def field of a type def struct
Using scanf to create new struct object
Shared memory sync using semaphore I have two codes : PRODUCER (PR) and CONSUMER (CO).
Having trouble understanding pointer operations
How do I call a function with pointer variable?
G Streamer's autovideosink missing for command line tools - Debian 9.4
G Mock C Framework Functions
How to read connections at the same time using select?
GZIP compression using zlib into buffer
Execute PE from memory I tried to write LoadLibrary function in C.
Function Modification
why is a negative long value greater than a positive unsigned long value?
Segmentation fault(core dumped) in recursively listing of directories and files in C, Linux
How to properly initialize task_struct in the linux kernel
Malloc and Calloc not freeing correctly
strtol not working as expected
How to pass function with different number of arguments as argument in C? [duplicate] 
Find subsets of size K in N set
Strange behaviour of Win32_NetworkAdapterConfiguration::EnableDHCP?
C program to test other programs with repeatable input and no restart
Using linkedlist to store txt's sentences
how to manipulate data from an input file in c?
s scanf doesnt seem to capture the correct parts of my strings
How to dynamically change data type?
Passing reference to a c executableIs it possible to send a reference to a variable as a parameter to an executable in C?
How are variables tied to their values in C?
Enum and a function that returns the month name as a string
i dont know this use of struct and pointers can anyone help me what does this line of code do
How do you query a pthread to see if it is still running?
Add a line in NcursesIs there a function in ncurses to add a line and move the text after the cursor to that new line?
Changing visibility of hidden symbols on OS X
Substituting the next character from a stream of characters in a while loop
How to get WebKit cookies with C?
Initial output of parent is lost while redirecting
How to implement Counting Sort on array of Student ID associate with Score I have an array of student ID with their respective score.
What is the correct behavior of non ascii chars in printf format?
struct_ prefix vs no prefix I'm currently writing some basic cgo code.
Basic square function done with array & malloc
Stucked while preparing an sql request pro*c
system() with dot doesn't create the .dot file
Memory Allocation, Outputting Garbage Why is this outputting garbage instead of char values in arrayLetter?
Open and write files in Android NDK Why can't I open files in writing mode in C?
Is an array name a pointer?
standard way to solve "passing argument of function from incompatible pointer type" with function pointers parameter
How can I change the "Dim the display" and "Dimming display brightness" setting (Windows) from wihin my application?
Speck cipher implementation in C - Test vector Error
ncurses - No output from pad Trying to get output from pad, but getting only a blank screen.
Create a file of a specific dimension filled with zeroes
How to make what function I use in c be controlled by a variable
MinGW DLL __stdcall calling convention linker error
Reading 2-D string Array From File In C
How to make specific row child editable in Gtk Tree View
Cutting a string?
Implement a 2D split() function
Segmentation faults every time I try to take command line input
Run c/c++ code from nodejs
How to prevent user from inputting char
Fastest assembly code for finding the square root. Explanation needed
call failed: RPC: Can't encode arguments I'm creating a very simple RPC. 
Solving user inputted equations in C
Calling a Structur Pointer error: "expected a identifier.."
Compile ptrace() program on OSX
Minimum sum of two elements from two arrays such that indices are not same
Function with an argument that can be different structs
Passing struct into function
How caching in stdlib fopen works?
C in Xcode having trouble with creating file I am new to Xcode and I an currently learning C. How does file opening work here?
fopen() crashing on second use in c
How can I rewrite my if-statements to work?
miniz C can't zip file with absolute path
Converting Python instance to ctypes.c_void_p
Who decides the sizeof any datatype or structure (depending on 32 bit or 64 bit)? Who decides the sizeof any datatype or structure (depending on 32 bit or 64 bit)?
Using sscanf for an unknown number of variables
Reading C program's output files in javascript
C compiler option in Bazel CROSSTOOL file How does one set C only (not C++) compiler flags in the CROSSTOOL file in Bazel. 
How do I do reverse sentence in this simple way?
C Case in loop problemsI have multiple errors with this project.
Gtk3 and cairo animation twitch I've made a very simple animation with gtk3 and cairo. 
How does C17 want me to initialize my atomics?
Function to repeat a certain menu in C I am new to C programming language.
Explicitly ignoring NULL value but C behaves weird I am writing a program to check a certain word in a string.
Visibility of change to shared memory from shm_open() + mmap()
The preLaunchTask 'helloworld' terminated with exit code 1
arithmetic and cast pointers and structures
log4cplus: use clogger API to write a single log from multiple processes
Why isn't scanf working when I try entering strings in a char pointer array?
Binary Search in C - Stuck in a loop
how to run a C program with a test file?
Union Assigned Values in C
Pointers, dereferencing and referencing
C: Is there a way to lower the speed of printf-outputsas said in the heading, is there a way to lower the speed of printf-outputs in C?
Wrong struct member values after pointer assignment
Hardcoding or substituting char **argv in C
How to know which DNS served a request?
LCD weird charactersI have been working on a project in which I need to show numeric outputs via 2x16 LCD display.
Macro preprocessor directive
learning c having trouble understanding pointers void
Why `-fvisibility-inlines-hidden` is not the default?
I run a random number generator but the outer loop only runs once [duplicate]
Is Java's Generic T object the equivalent of C's Opaque pointer?
Replacing characters in a string using pointers
How to store value of variable 
Unable to show all UPnP devices within the local network C++
Using a multidimensional array within a structure
using EOF instead of feof
I have to count the occurence of letters in a file with each letter having its own fork process
How do I install libDb from source on OSX
Using floorf to reduce the number of decimals
Dynamic objects (C pointers handling) when they are passed to a function
K&R replace multiple spaces with single space
Conditional jump or move depends on uninitialised value(s) in C valgrindsentences = malloc(sizeof(int) * totalSentences);
./a.out is not recognized in window for executing lexIm using DevCpp and flex on windows 10.
Switch case weird scoping
Error while printing the given inputs
Postgre sql C How to convert uint64_t into numeric?
Convert hexadecimal numbers to decimal numbers
manually copy .data section from flash to ram with IAR EWARMI have written a bootloader for a Kinetis K24 Cortex M4.
Why is this C-string assignment illegal?
Trying to assign a character to a string inside a pointer to a struct causes a segmentation fault
Are there real vectors (one-dimensional arrays) in Perl?
Why fwrite prints null bytes while writing binary file in C?
Direct access to structure task_struct from Usermode as root
double free or corruption (!prev) pthread
Problems reading\writing to devices for embedded Linux project
Decimal To Binary in C Char Array I want to return a 16BIT binary from a decimal number. 
Why do stacks typically grow downwards?
Is there a fast way to interpose a character between strings?
Binding Toggle Buttons to each other using Glade & GTK+ (in C)
Using .NET CLR in luajit as a module
Strange things happen when handling http request multithread
Why does linking my program with iso_c_binding cause undefined references to __gfortran_?
Determine length in bytes of content of a variable
why the array in c does not swap the last elements
random chars in dynamic char array C I need help with char array. 
UART interrupt infinite loop microchip
gprof : function 'etext' is taking 100.05% of time running I used gprof to get a profile of a c code which is running too slowly.
Code that hugs commands between save and retrieve mechanism
Are dev_t and ino_t required to be integer types?
Is malloc neccesary when creating array in function call?
gcc : undefined reference to 'function'
`makefile` not working as expected
malloc issues- C program runs in debugging but crashes in normal running
HC-05 ⸮ In Serial Does Not Function I recently got a HC-05 Bluetooth module for my arduino, but I cannot send or receive data from it.
C - Using fgets until newline/-1
variadic-functions to a dynamic array?
libhiredis does not work when passing redis
can't overwirte return address outside of gdb
Why does c print a different array the second time it's printed?
snprintf floating with specified width and specified padded digits and specified precision
How can I best "parallelise" a set of four nested for()-loops in a Brute-Force attack?
HexRays - output has values read that are never written?
c typedef(ed) opaque pointer
Program is working on code block but not in hacker rank
Matching hashes in C I am fairly new to C and am currently practicing by writing a program which that allows users to search for hashes written in a text file.
Writing an LLVM pass to detect malloc function calls, number of bytes assigned and the variable name pointing to that memory
CMake CMAKE_WINDOWS_EXPORT_ALL_SYMBOLS Can't Export inline method
Variable types in C and who keeps track of itI am taking a MOOC course CS50 from Harvard. 
OpenGL Hooking -- Rendering to an arbitrarily-sized FBO
Character type pointer memory allocation?
Parallel assignment in C++
printf function on multi thread program
Variable arguments inside a macro
C FILE creation not working
Unable to free the value of a pointer (which holds a pointer) I have a database which stores pointers as data. 
Can someone help me with "unknown type name 'treeElement'" error?
Got 'nan' when using ctypes in python3 where a float is expected
What does this code mean in C, " int x = ~!printf; "?
why my first child process does not receive signal from his parentthis program have been writted in C and compiled on ubuntu.
Different nCurses behaviours with different terminals
c function: re-initialize a static array or declare new every call?
Any built-in function to chanage case in C?
Writing data in different files in C I'm studying C at the moment and I'm not that good yet. 
C program to save structure data to an Excel file in a tabular format
C access symbol in executable (linux)
Why does this code only return every other coordinate from my data set?
How to input two strings I'm trying to write a program where the user has to write two different strings, but after the first string is entered the program ends.
How can I print an array like a grid?
GNU argp: How to parse option with only long name?
Read 2 data stringI have faced a problem with my program and I don't understand why.
Converting Complex c function to fortranI am converting some c functions to fortran.
Why I cannot compile with -fPIE but can with -fPIC?
For loop' to arrange Numbers in ascending order. 
Unclear relationship between pointer dereferencing and casting in a specific scenario
How to sync N processes to wait for each other through semaphoreLinux, C.
Copy array via memcpy I saw there are a lot of articles about memcpy but I can't find the solution for my problem. 
NPPExec scanf Notepad++ Consoleim new to NPPExec and c coding.
Why wont my file open and how can I fix it?
Return error code after first detected error
How to compile static .lib library for Windows in Linux or Macos
C - Writing duplicate array records into a text fileIn this C program i have an array with duplicate student IDs.
fread() causes Valgrind error: "Conditional jump or move depends on uninitialised value(s)
gmp strange behaviour that doesn't let me compile new project
l value required as left operand of assignment <-- I dont get thesewhy that always appears every time i want to do these
c function not printing when called and jump to the next function I am trying to make  a game  called Tic-Tac-Toe-Tomek(variation of Tic-Tac-Toe).
Is it ok to define static inline function with same name in different files?
Scanning char array using read() Can I set char array by using read method in a function?
How to get net encap in c\c++ on linux? Is there a way in Linux, using C\C++ code, to get the information about all network adapters "Link encap:*****"?
Why and How, is this C program showing 7.21 accurately?
UDP Socket Programming - recvfrom() one Port and send to() other PortUDP Socket Programming - Server listening on Port 5000 - Client listening on Port 6000
Count number of blanks, spaces, and tabs in C
function parameter type compatibility
C - Passing pointer to function
Why do we need to include prototypes in source file in C?
Configure doesn't read --with-openssl-dir during static Tor compilation I'm trying to compile a static version of Tor with MinGW-w64 (MSYS 2).
Defining preprocessor directives gives unknown identifier while compilation 
Why my c program only produce zero answer while using for loop?
Counting primes up to 18 digits optimization
Why is “while ( !feof (file) )” always wrong? 
Multi Threading - Peterson's algorithm not working
Counting average from random numbers from 0 to 1
Speed measurement from lidar sensor for automatic braking system
Execute C language input file on linux
Print extended ascii with write function How do I print character 128 from extended ascii with write function in c language?
segmentation fault (core dumped) using pointer
C Statistical Analysis Program having mathematical errors
Why does converting a certain short to double equal a 4004 digit number?
How to keep threads paused in C
Controlling mouse wheel by code I'm trying to develop a program that scroll a text page.
Options for Py_BuildValue when creating handle Which options should I use for Py_Build Value when I am trying to return PyObject which is handle at C?
C language-> Read a file to a dynamic array 
How to uppercase first char in the C input?
calling sock_sendmsg in kernel module returns (-1) permission denied I am working on a driver and I need to send UDP packets from the kernel.
calloc causes Bad Access
Why can pointers be NULL In C or C++, isn't NULL just the constant integer 0? Why are we allowed to assign some pointer to the value NULL if it a constant integer? 
Why does "typedef struct anything_at_all boom;" compile without errors?
Convert struct with pointer to char array
VM Placement with FF, BF and WF Algorithms Please I am working on VM Placement using First-fit (FF), Best-fit (BF) and Worst-fit (WF) algorithms.
Matrix addition in c using malloc not allowing full input
Open MPI Waitall() Segmentation Fault I'm new with MPI and I'm trying to develop a non-blocking programm (with Isend and Irecv). 
How does c String(using: .utf8) and with UnsafeFile System Representation(_:) differ from each other?
What is an undefined reference/unresolved external symbol error and how do I fix it? 
Dynamic libraries loading at different addresses despite ASLR being disabled I have a program that I'm using to demo a return-into-libc exploit.
How recursion works for this binary search tree algorithm I have the following binary search tree, with root node 20.
Can't understand how a long double number can be greater than 2^80
Structure used in other source files
Is there a function similar to string compare but for integers?
Where did the name `atol` come from?
Dijkstra's algorithm on a graph represented by adjacency list I was implementing Dijkstra's algorithm on a weighted directed graph given by an adjacency list.
How to understand this GNU C inline assembly macro for PowerPC stwbrx
copy data from linux kernel space to user space
C implementation of merge sort, as shown in Cormen's et al "Introduction to algortithms" not working properly
Unexpected truncation when copying data to empty string in C
Changing specific set of bits in a byte
Count the amount of individual characters (vowels) within a string in C
Hooking sys_execve on Linux kernel 4.6 or higher
Sharing a 3D int array between processes C/C++ I'm currently modifing a code which uses a cache loaded on the fly from a database. 
Why does this not out "invalid input" when i enter 4 / a in command arguments
strange value when print linked list values in c
Nested loop in mips assembly
C how to define many variable the each name add 1 for switch case usingmy code below, because define test_X will so many, maybe from test_1 to test_100.
glReadPixels causing crash I have a 3d scene which I can render on my display.
Please explain this behavior of fgets() in C To my understanding, fgets() will scan for input until a carriage return(\n), but my this code shows otherwise.
stm32l4 RTC HAL not working
Makefile - Only Makes One of Two Libs I am new to makefile and am trying to compile several files. 
control reaches end of non-void function c programming using Xcode
What is the best way to have multiple threads read a file at the same time? What is the best way to have multiple threads read a file at the same time?
Why do we send the lengths of strings as parameters to functions when we can use strlen() inside the function to get the lengths of the words?
Int variable mysteriously changes value after returning from void
Linked List Insertion Simple
SIGSEGV Segmentation Fault at strcmp() on a forked() child process
Returning pointer to statically defined array of structsI statically defined a my Struct and inside the struct, I have an inner Struct array of size 3. 
intersection and union of two unsorted arrays
Is there any usage for ' * ' in C else than multiplication and pointer?
do-while loop does not end
Strcmp not comparing strings from argv** Updated 26/10 -> First of all thank you all for you help, I am getting closer now, I need more work and studying but I really appreciate you are helping me a lot :-) 
How can I add mouse support to my own X based window manager
C++/C: Prepend length to Char[] in bytes (binary/hex)
memory allocation of structure error in c (Segmentation fault)
How the system know the end of data segment2 Questions (the same topic)
Can someone please tell me whats wrong with the following Assembl code.
Build a .ko file using a .o fileI know that we can make a .ko file using a source .c file with a subsequent makefile given below.
Converting a class from C# (AVL tree node) to C
(Unix/Linux) How would I execute a C program from another C program that requires an input file?
Navigate through Array using pointer
My program compiles and when ran, it doesn't give me the input i put in The purpose of my program thus far is to create 4 arrays. 
2d random walk with periodic boundaries I am simulating a random walk in 2d with periodic boundaries. 
Canceled pthread, but not PTHREAD_CANCELED?
IPC between Python and C on Windows
C Program Works in GDB But Not Normally Whenever I run the code below normally, it exits instantly.
What is signed integer overflow?
How to copy the last node in a linked list into a variable then delete the original in the list in C?
Better way to check repetitive if-statement conditions
Read pipe in child process hanging on second read
Is accessing a device driver in Linux only possible using its device file?
Using pointers to replace char in char array
I don't really understand how to interpret the following logical expressions
Run time Error- c projecti make a function to print an B Tree in level order none recursive way.
Understanding the maximum values that can be stored in floats in C
Rand() not generating random variables in C
Function return character pointer in C
Bit toggling confusion in C 
How to write a memcpy function full MISRA:2012 compatible?
Trying to use timer_A to control an LED
function from linux shell script not execute in c program
how do I import a c library?
Divide and conquer average
linked list add node using push functionstruct node* AppendNode(struct node** headRef, int num)
Simple Linked List in C (2) : Trash resultI ask a question again.
Binary representation of the 32 bits integer
Array function (image processing project) I faced an  issue of my assignment  related the array function.
Simple if character does not equal 
Does writing to standard output allocate memory?
Array Indexing Error in Multidimensional Column Shifting (pointers being used)
Can i use different timer channels when other channels (of the same timer) have i2c alternate function
struct problems with malloc
Add two different integers together 
How to read input line at the end character or at '\n' character? How can I read in C a line from the console to not initialize a some array like int buf[30];?
Is the max value of size_t (SIZE_MAX) defined relative to the other integer types?
input text file into an 2d array in c
Just tried smth simple with pointers in C and it is confusing
~ no response on stdout ~ in C
Attempting to run program with Linked Lists and receiving "Segmentation Fault 11
How can I use an external C library wrapped with Cython in a separate Python process via multiprocessing?
What is the output of this program Insert in beginning of an array in c and reason why is it?
Print Window on inactive desktop in Windows 10
unclear about __bss_end and _start in the source For updating mon_len in the global data following statement was used in the u-boot source. 
What do you mean by block numbers in an inode?
make: 'file' is up to date, followed by nothing to be done for all
Calculating total number of processes in fork() code
Why do I always get the same sequence of random numbers with rand()?
C program not terminating
How to pass value of a character to another .bat file in c?
linked list inside a linked list segmentation error
Is it possible to parse pcap packets from buffer I have a bunch of huge pcap files (> 10GB) that are compressed with lzma. 
Pass list of list from Python to C as uint64_t matrix
Implicit declaration of function 'sqlite3_rekey' is invalid in C99
Why printf function print the result in order when the order of number is not corresponding to the format?
A free() needed after malloc on mcu (even when the array/pointer is always in use)?
Odd behavior of Windows thread I am combining GTK+, WinAPI and Winsock to create a graphical client-server interface, a waiting room. 
C variable showing different different Value
Problems while linking .so in Android Studio
Obtaining handle to key with NtCreateKey/NtOpenKeyPURPOSE
Accessing free'd memory even without pointing to it
How do i fill specific columns in a mutlidimensional array in C?
How do I refer to literal registers in gcc inline assembly in AT&T syntax?
Why don't you need to specify the array size when using a pointer in C?
stack pointer offset for function arguments
How to print a 5 bit/n bit number in C?
Linking a Static Library built with arm-none-eabi- in Keil uVision Project
How to obtain a VSX value of zero?
Unable to send image via RabbitMQ C master
How to reopen dialog, that was closed with EndDialog(); in C
C Header define order/position Currently I'm trying to include a library in a C header file.
swig c library and ctypes uint8 invalid type
Caesar cipher in C - encryption and decryption I made this program and seems that doesn't work can you tell me why?
Pause program after displaying ten characters
Multi dimensional array reference in struct in c
C - where is constant located in a process's memory?
Asking a user to input their name and outputting their initials in C
C using scanf() on Strings 
C char qsort in array of pointers to strings
C Macro to convert a string to a pascal string type
Too few arguments to function 'fgets'?
How array is initialized with the the help of sizeof operator?
C, SDL: error: cannot convert 'SDL_Surface*' to 'SDL_Surface* (*)[15]
Why option -m32 is not working on my linux operating system?
Printing manually crafted string not working
Forging X events, I'm looking for server time
Simple UEFI bootloader Windows 10
How to declare multiple pointer-to-pointer using while in C?
Determine if a range is contained within a set of ranges I have a set of ranges within an array. 
C program for parking simulation not giving output
What's the consequence of a sequence-point "immediately before a library function returns"?
Is there any definition for #pragma location?
char *str[ ] pass by reference not working I am passing a char *str[] in help function and then adding contents to it but in main function its values are unchanged.
How to code properly with MPI?
type conversion when using pointers in arguments
Error accessing 64bit DLL function
Why no error on multiple declarations of same structure variable I started doing programs on structures.
structs - why gets function is not working compared to scanf?
How do you add/specify predefined macros for GCC? 
What is the calling convention for the main function in C?
Plain C: Binary Heap Segmentation Faults/Reallocation ErrorsI am VERY new to C, but I thought that I'd learn it while I'm learning basic data structures.
C Make - Using POSIX feature test macros?
Undeclared variable c in structure pointer function
How to append the letters ULL to a number you don't already know in C
C socket blocking call I wonder about the behaviour of socket on blocking and nonblocking actions.
Dispatch Read Source event handler not firing for bound socket I'm trying to implement a simple TCP socket server in Swift. 
How to apply DSCP fields on SYNC-ACK packets using setsocketopt function
unexpected output with getchar()
C INPUT of Switch Casehow to input String and use it in the Switch command?
Data not getting stored in EEPROM
From C to Python: writing binary
Single UDP socket multiple clients processing data in another thread
sampling with raspberry in c
Brackets used in C and their purposes
How to use GPIO Port Control (GPIOPCTL) in ARM Cortex M4 TM4C123G microcontroller?
Copy a file with buffers of different sizes for read and write
Android NDK non-deterministic Socket connect() time outI have problems with client/server application that is part of a bigger system for distributed computing.
linked list error on inserting new data in node or element in C
How can I pass a fixed value to a pointer?
How does the program access the inherited file descriptors?
How to read data from a serial port and write it to a file 
Sidereal time calculation in C I have some code which I taken from Javascript.
how to extract integer from a string and assign each set of strings to different variables?
adding same variables with different values in loop
Why the for loop is not working for particular values?
initialising array with declared variablesI have tried the below code, but it doesn't work.
Whats the meaning from the IP Headers in C iph_tos?
atoi — how to identify the difference between zero and error?
Can you edit a Postgres Array Type in C?
Rationale behind the container_of macro in linux/list.h
Is the name of function a pointer variable?
User customization of a static library vs re-entrancy I want to create a static library in GCC (Basically AVR-GCC). 
Checking if function, tested with C Mockery, calls another particular function I am facing problem in writing mock code using CMockery for a function shown below.
Please explain the output of the following C program. 
Step-over switches thread while debugging multi-threaded C program with vscode
Error when linking C libraries downloaded from Homebrew to Xcode Project
str len giving unexpected outputs C
Add openssl library into my project, got errors 'openssl/ossl_typ.h' file not foundI installed openssl-1.1.0 f and added the library into my source code.
C Array Memory Error?(Beginner) When I try to print all the values in the array(which should be zero?)
Some char arrays don't end with '\0'
What does int values[] mean?
How can i printf ascii code using other variable?
C: Different value every time program is run
Passing C string to a function that returns C string pointer
decrements the loop value by 2 only in the 6th position
Capturing the RTSP streaming using libcurl How can I capture the RTSP streaming using socket connection? 
reading .txt file in c to lines
Access violation writing location 0x00D00000
Changing namespace to obtain capabilities I have code that calls functions that require CAP_NET_ADMIN capabilities.
Garbage value retrieval
To get the 3rd line from a file as string (w/o new line)
sizeof(text) not equal to : fp_len + 1
programe name .exe stops working in c IDE ,whenever i use SCANF funtionprograme name .exe stops working in c IDE ,whenever i use SCANF funtion
Taking the crypt of a password is adding some weird foobar thing so that it doesn't equal
issues with reading data from csv I am working on a code in c that needs to read csv data and enter it into a structure.
Import C dll function in python
Number of Triangles in a Vertex in C
behaviour of implicit function declaration
Assembly: Memory address of variables in C Programming
OpenCL 1D Array Big Number Multiply I am working on multiplying two integer array for big numbers.
Is it always possible to convert an `int` to a `float` Is a conversion from an int to a float always possible in C without the float becoming one of the special values like +Inf or -Inf?
How to terminate Scanf() if input entered after whitespace is invalid one in C? 
Auto release of stack variables in C
Variable in C with limited range of acceptable values How can I have a variable in C whose value should lie only between 20 to 520?
Is it undefined behaviour in C to use pointer to a typedef type as a pointer to the primitive type?
Inter-thread communication using condition variables?
Mingw -mconsole option causes linkage error on undefined referces for MS GUI functions
Recursive copy function to copy data from socket to a file.
fgets() doesn't wait for input running with Eclipse-neon
Delay load python DLL when embedding python+numpy
MPI_Waitall invalid request
reading in a file line by line - where is the file?
force utilisation of a specific library at execution I compile an executable with option to use specific library (not system library).
cjson - symbol(s) not found for architecture x86_64
MacOS using sysctl() to get HW_MACHINE_ARCH getting "no such file or directory"
Regexp puzzle : encapsulated structures
System calls - functions used by kernel
error "Invalid initializer"This is program which turns seconds into secods-minutes-hours.
Why can not I get proper sentence output?
Establishing via code whether console should be saved to a file (and the name of such file)
C Sharedmemory only 1024 int in forked processi should write an program that write integers into a shared memory, fork a childprocess and the childprocess should read the integers.
can't work fread, getc while reading bytecode of python a byte pertime
Is it possible to get GCC to read from a pipe?
mmap SIGBUS error and initializing the file I'm trying to model a basic CPU by mmapping a 1 MiB file, corresponding to the RAM size.
Is it possible for two process in different languages to communicate by using UDP
atmega embedded C programming I am trying to learn embedded C programming for atmega.
C - make negative value positive and use it outside a function
Palindrome - C language only I was wondering why the result is not correct.
C - ZLib - Invert Compression
C -- Neither scanf or fgets seem to execute
C code in code composer studio So the question is: Write a program in C such that it contains a function which calculates the third power of a given integer. 
Why should ftime not be used?
Decimal to BCD to ASCII Perhaps this task is a bit more complicated than what I've written below, but the code that follows is my take on decimal to BCD. 
How do you specify variables to be final in C?
Create simple displaySorry for this simple question but I don't really understand how correctly create consol on C.
how to convert latitude and longitude to pixels
error: expected constructor, destructor, or type conversion before '('I'm just working on a RFID Sniffer on Arduino but something happened that it doesnt't work anymore.
Memory leak synchronous reading interrupt transfer data via libUSB
C - Macro contradictionI just started learning C and I am not sure about how everything works.
GDB backtrace variables values
How can a program access an IDE hard disk?
double free or corruption (!prev)
C program not giving prime numbers I have installed Eclipse in Ubuntu Mate. 
GNU ARM Eclipse: how to simulate pin input?
Why am I not getting a Buffer Overflow?
Externally defined constant in C header file
a program that reads simple data declarations and responds with the amount of memory that would be allocated to that variable
Extracting string from ELF section in C I have created a new ELF section and added a line of text into it.
Linker cannot find symbols in libraryI built a C library using CMake.
Launching an APP from volume ID I'm trying to launch an .exe file in windows using and a volume ID. 
C programming, doing multiple calculations in one function
ARMCC 5 optimization of strtol and strtod I have a board based on STM32L4 MCU (Ultra Low Power Cortex-M4) for GNSS tracking purposes. 
Implicit declaration in C language
Find a series with recursion
Solving compound assignment expressions Okay, I know the output for the expression (x *= y = z = 4;) is 40; but how exactly did we get 40?
How to make text colored in c lang in cmd? how to make text colored in c lang?
Adding to array inside linked list C
Seeding pseudo random generator with random number from a better random source
Stack Overflow C variable position
Are parameters copied twice for inline in c?
How to write to memory location reserved for struct
Linux Kernel Patch Version Macro Definition I'd like to build my kernel modules for centos 7 kernels. 
Multiple alarms in C?
How to Create IPC (Interprocess Communication) C programme to create with two child process
printf a selected numbers in an array
How can I implement a merge sort by using fork processes?
Why do many C functions require the size of one of its arguments?
How to get the cursor position in a C program using termcap, without writing a character?
C - spiral traversal of 2D array outwards (starting from center) and clockwise
shared variable between instances of program
Spell checker in C
C pthread join/exit Threads (Exit wont work)
A Child Process That Calls Exit() But Does Not Become A Zombie For learning purpose, I wrote a piece of code to generate zombie processes.
Incomplete Definition of Type (struct ) I tried many times to fix the error "Incomplete Definition of Type of struct * ,please can you help me to find the problem and fix it?
Strange behavior of c char** array assignment I am new to C language and hoping to get a good understanding char array assignment coming from Java background. 
GCC not able to locate files in the directory
Segmentation fault (core dumped) after adding an array inside a struct
Passing pointer from recursive function I've been ask to make selection sort code with only recursive method.
How can I sort an array of strings in C?
what is this "continue" does exactly? I have this part of the code, I don't understand. I know "continue" in if, skips that statement. But why?
The array that I created has unexpected size
How to put a variable in a shared memory? 
Executed shellcode terminates main program I am trying to execute shellcode in a memory region.
Need to remove character from a string in C
All files has FILE_ATTRIBUTE_ARCHIVE attribute
I am trying to write a function that removes all the odd elements from a given linked-list and also returns an adress of
Why does malloc not return?
scanf_s returning Null every time I am using scanf_s to two different inputs and place them into char arrays.
C - Creating a struct in a source file I am hanging around for the last 6 hours trying to get this damn problem solved.
Trying to build a stack with pointers and malloc. 
Exponential function in C using recursion function
Serial Communication not working in C
Sort composed structs using qsort()I have the following structs.
User Prompt to Play Again Not Working i made a simple snake game below. 
LTE to Wi-fi Handover I am working on a Linux based device which have LTE and Wi-Fi modules.
what is the method to call this C function(libqp_gsmo.c) from R?
CMake - Creating a static library
Linker error with mysql.h in c programming
What happens to the data in the socket when read and write system calls are used?
when will libcurl close the socket which is opened by OPEN_SOCKETFUNCTION open_callback?
Segmentation fault on double pointer dereference
Cross Compile a automake project?
recv is always reading 0 bytes after second recv call
How to output the value returned by a function that is a float in C
wrong sha1 output in hex My code is supposed to calculate a sha1 hash from a string content and then print it as hex values.
strcpy misalignment __strcpy_sse2_unaligned() What should be the correct approach(es) to solve __strcpy_sse2_unaligned() problems?
How to convert an Eclipse managed cdt project into Makefiles
Print every step of merge sort in C
How to for loop iterate for two variables? 
Why does my function always return 1?
C- Performing mathematical operations on string characters
Counting numbers in a file, in C I'm trying to count the number of numbers in a text file.
how to calculate PrimesI want all Primes and the programm work but i get a warning
Concatenating large string in C to write to file I am new to C so I am having a tough time figuring this out.
Access Violation Exception in OpenCL Program I get an Access Violation Exception in this line,
Using a variable to declare multiple structs in C
gcc -lns l error in socket programming on mac os
Is there any way to reduce the operations between these two dependent matrices?
How do i store a string inside a node in a linked list?
Deleting a node that has two subtree/node I have problem deleting a node that has two subtree.
optimal way of using malloc and realloc for dynamic storing
Storing strings using fgets I have a file which contains information about films like this
Get depth of call stack in gcc I want to write a debug printing function that prints LINE, FILE, func and some other stuff. 
A pointer "addr" in a struct was allocated memory but when I call it in another function, it can't work
signal handler not called for dl open or dl close
Indexing into argv with literal vs variable
I wrote this method to delete duplicate elements of a linked list, but it shows segmentation fault, why?
how do header implementation file get included in another c file
cannot find symbol "Embeddedrcall_Init" I am trying to create a dll file using swig for an embedded R C Program in windows environment.
C progr. - finding number of palindromes in a sentence - how to set a loop to tokenize words while performing the counting
Skipping lines of code in C i/o
Exit not minimize a window?
How to acquire and release the locks in OpenMP
Duplicate symbol error when linking C code I am trying to use some functions that are written in C.
Atmelstudio UC3C AVR32 - framework objects in wrong place in memory?
Is it possible to (recursively) "introspect" nested C structs using x-macros?
C programming sprinf issue
Malloc/free own implementation
send about UDP socket in C and C++A non-block UDP socket called "connect" and use "send" to send data, is it necessary to use "select/epoll/kqueue" to test whether it is writable? In the case, the other side recv buffer is full, "send" may fail, so I can use "select" to test that it's writable so that "send" may return success? 
How can I implement a IF to detect the last byte when file reading?
Can I run a test in a loop in Ceedling?
Clang -Wunused-const-variable in C vs. C++A file with just a const declaration
precision issuse with taylor series for finding cosine
How pointer variable works, without initialising it in the code in TurboC++?
How to correctly use inet_pton rotine in Windows 10?
Synchronising processes with semaphores I'm having a tricky time understanding how to alternate control between two processes using semaphores.
Simply Two Dimensional I'm trying to solve this exercise. 
Do I cast the result of malloc?
Copying entire input line in (f)lex (for better error messages)?
Query the structure field with the user input in C I am experimenting a new thing in C to convert the user input string to the structure field and then obtain the value of it.
Sending HTTP GET request to freegeoip in C I have written a C-programm on Windows to get my location using freegeoip. 
Call a function in shared .so from C My goal is creating a shared library created from c++.
How to open the output file in C without keyboard/trackpad?
READ File line by line using C I am working on a program that reads a txt file line by line and copies each line into an empty text file.
static library doesn't contain macro
Do statically linked libraries require linking with their dependencies?
Playing Mp3 file using FFmpeg on Android This question has been asked a lot but no code has worked for me.
Understanding char * to int * conversion and its meaning
Errors like "Conflicting types for 'move'" when using XcodeI got a problem with Xcode, that only appears on Xcode.
Python 2D array i C using ctypes i'm trying to use a self written c lib to proces 2d array from python but with little success.
Pointer does not increment, if incremented in other function
(C) How to fill a 2D array with an input that's a full N x N matrix?
How to embed an icon (.ico) in a static library (Visual Studio) Is there a way to embed resources (such as icons, dialogs) in a c++ (Win32 API) static library?
Trying to create linked list in C. 
creating an array of structures from a file in C 
How to distinguish int from int pointer in C?
Reading integers with commas between them
I need help in C program How Do I check all the if statement? is there any code I can use?
Segmentation Fault with Pointers and Structures This program is supposed to manipulate a student list.
Forcing the size of an enum'd field in a structure[NOTE: this is related to Specifying size of enum type in C and What is the size of an enum in C?
Create a function to copy n char like strcpy in C
EDC machine crashes if I initialize a globa l variableI am working on EDC machines from Ingenico.
Running python script that should accepts arguments from a C program
expected ‘double (*)(double)’ but argument is of type ‘double’ in C
Issues with ARP and sending data
GCC insert a static library containing assembly into a dynamic lib
binary search in Data Structure and Algorithm Analysis in C
Control flow understanding
Local variables defined inside loop I have a function and several nested loops in it.
C: converting a uint8 array to a string containing the hex representation of its bytes
Cannot access memory - gdb
Checking whether unlocking file was successful - fcnt l While writing a code to train some unix locks I have come across a problem. 
Why is this function causing a run time error
store bits(byte) in long long by concatenationpoly 8_bitslice() array if char as input, this input will be converted to bits(byte) by the function int ToBits(). 
c - client server socket programming - sending files
volatile variables or volatile structure problems in C
Read text file and display content in ascii format I'm trying to read a maze file and convert to ascii and display when the code is run.
IPC mechanism for master-slave communication
Can't add the data to the struct I am trying to deal with the struct in C language.
Marshalling strings between managed code and native DLL
Read a file line by line without moving the pointer from the beginning of a line in C
setgid does not work on /tmp/I have this C program
Trying to implement a red-black tree in C I need help implementing a red-black tree It seems to keep seg faulting on my malloc calls. 
How to override handle_message in GstBin?
How to dynamically add new data to a 2D Array?
Removing Elements From a Linked List Recursively in C
error: expected ‘:’, ‘,’, ‘;’, ‘}’ or ‘__attribute__’I am making a function that loads a file in memory in form of linked list.
Printing Hello World Only 3 Times Not 5 I am trying to print hello world 5 times using a new function to do so called: hello_world.
Link C variable to Lua I'm looking for a solution to bind a C variable (integer, double, normal C string or similar) to Lua.
Using offsetof with enum does not compile in Visual Studio 2015
Guaranteeing the order of execution without using volatile or memory barrier and locks
How to change size of a struct's attribute in C?
Strlen() of allocated pointer I create a buffer like this but I don't give it content.
python os.pipe() to create pipe and open the file descriptor in c
Difference in linked lists between c and java
Having trouble understanding this const pointer error
SSE to Neon (_mm_movelh_ps)Im moving some SSE code to Neon and Im cannot find any equivalent to _mm_movelh_ps.
C Rotating String Program?
Mock().enable and disable are not recognized compiling test group project with cpputest lib
Program runs then says it stops working
Do #ifdef, #ifndef and #undef work with function-like macros?
C program that runs a loop from n and goes till 1
gcc linking object files with warning/optimization flags
Make file error when when compileing C codeI downloaded the C source code for single-threaded Linux versions of cubist software. 
what is the effect of private(i,j) in this code?
IBM Websphere MQ - MQGET does not remove the message from the queue
Trying to terminate a char array and print afterwards I'm making a char array binary representations of a number.
Call C shared library API (in .so lib) from Java Script I have a custom C shared library (.so lib) with some APIs.
Using -> to access property of struct but getting compiler error telling me to use ->?
How are const char and char pointers represented in memory in STM32 How does MCU now that the string a variable is pointing on is in data memory or in program memory?
C Program - printf overlapping with other printf chars
Online Judge PS [Floyd_Warshal, C++]
Why can I update a pointer to a (constant) string literal?
Regarding the output of this do while loop program in C
MPI_Gatherv: Garbage values received in root's array
Storing final token of a string using strtok()?
Counting strings in C, using fgets and str
Simple menu in c I am a new computer science student and I am currently working on a university project on super shop management system. 
What is the order of the completion packets for WSASend() and WSARecv() in this case?
Why won't the second scanf() execute
How to check if user input a string value?
Why am I getting errors while compiling this code and how to fix them?
What does the modulo operator mean when applied to character arithmetic?
undefined reference to main issue (using arduino, RaspberryPi, GCC)
Dividing a number represented by two words by a number represented by one?
How to retrieve cookie value from HTTP_COOKIE variable
Code is ignoring IF command in C
Stuck on maximum unsigned short variable prompt
Why define a macro with the same name and content in C?
How to set several number of threads in hybrid openMP/MPI program
DSP libraries - RFFT - strange results Recently
How to add integers in from two 2d arrays into a new 2d array with specified length by user?
gcc generating a list of function and variable names
C program two dimensional array char value output for 2 character I want to show output with a two dimensional array.
Swap two structure and two int using void pointers in function parameter
rand() return the same number
Error Segmentation fault (core dumped)
How to save the result of typeof?
explanation of the nested for loop
Easy math using multiplication/division however not getting correct answer in relation to denominator
How do I debug software that outputs a .mix?
c max array size effected by printf
Why does the C Standard allow this code to compile without errors?
C - RGBA Conversion Not Returning The Desired RGB Result Okay, I have a method that I am having a difficult time with returning the desired results.
Valgrind doesn't like my realloc()?
XTC file reading error
Merge sort in C giving wrong results I wrote a merge sort program but I got wrong results.
Assignment from incompatible pointer type — how to fix?
How to pass a struct containing char* in java using JNA and avoiding the data copy?
How to use malloc and free for Dynamic Memory Allocation I just started learning C, coming from php.
Global variable not updated by child processes in C
How do I call a function with a struct in C?
Rtl Secure Zero Memory unresolved in static lib using MinGW
Run alias command in exec system call
Using fgets and using printf only some lines are printed
Pass an array by value Generally when we pass array by its name, it’s call by address. 
Horizontal xor of two SSE values I would need to do horizontal xor of two 128bit integers (by 32bit integers) and combine the results to one 64bit integer. 
Understanding merge sort code
Iterating over an array that point to other arrays
Array dynamically allocated by file size is too largeI am working on a class assignment and need some help with dynamically allocated arrays.
OpenMP, how do I treat these variables?
How to measure speed of short piece of C/assembly code?
Semaphores and possibly non-reentrant function in embedded C
linux terminal command with a pipe in c code
CentOS - Error parsing XML fileI need to port a C app, from RedHat (x86) to CentOS (x64). 
Converting IP address char to long
Why do C Functions Alter Arrays Automatically?
error while using fopen frequently
Is declaring a string literal with a pointer more memory efficient than declaring constant array?
Linking .c and .h filesFor my program I am linking 3 files in total. A main.c, sortfile.c and my.h(header file).
note: expected 'float *' but argument is of type 'int *'I have a warning
Recursion manual tracing I am learning recursion, some times it blow my mind.
Scanf skips every other while loop in C
Implicit declaration of function ‘wait’
Read mmapped data memory efficient I want to mmap a big file into memory and parse it sequentially. 
libmxl2 - change value of element, with mixed content I am doing some tiny wrapper for using libxml2 library.
NodeJS: Performance of Native Addon vs External Binary
Link dynamic C runtime with clang (windows) Clang on windows (using msvc libs) links with libcmt (the static runtime library) by default. 
strncat(): Random character in target string
How do i change the format of I/O?
C function conversion to c++ I am experiencing a problem with C language while I am trying to adapt a callback written in C to C++.
Why doesn't strcpy use a const pointer for dest?
C function that uses bitwise operations to see if an int x fits in n bits/* 
Array to binary format I will implement a function that exports one of three arrays to a binary .mat file in double format.
Shift/Reduce conflict in Bison, when trying to add optional rule I am trying to solve shift/reduce conflict in Bison.
Check if a string has only numbers in C?
Unhandled exception calling Cert Create Certificate Chain Engine function
Passing fscanf / sscanf string into a structure field char[4] How the two struct field definitions below differentiate from each other.
stm32 c, export prototype to rest of project
Passing an operator as an argument to a function in C
using several different functions For my assignment, my program needs to ask the user which of the five functions he wants to execute.
Joining lines in C [Strange output not compatible with documentation] I started coding C in vim and I have some problems.
How to remove line breaks after "ctime" in C program?
switch and if statement order (Robot C)
Creating n random points and creating quadrilaterals (stuck) C
Failed to upload log bucket, id '1' (delivery error code '1')
Check if the next read will set EOF indicator
Need help i get segmentation fault in program in C First I will explain what I want to program.
Character array and address of character array
Argument type error in C I am supposed to ask the user for a 3 digit number and then replaces each digit by that digit plus 6 modulus 10, then sum all update digits.
C: size of *array[x]?
How to initialize object of structure in main function?
How to add image channel with torch?
What should be the type of the regmap_read val pointer
Can bit-level operations ever be "fast" in software?Let me clarify the soft-sounding title straight away.
How can I mount davfs from within application?
C bind config file to executable I have a C Programm which reads from a configuration file during runtime. 
C - Why is my merge function not working?
How to build protobuf-c in windows using mingw?
What is the purpose of the h and hh modifiers for printf?
Can malloc() be used to define the size of an array?
Use of sizeof() with normal arrays and garraysit is a practice program to sort GArrays, I have used sizeof() to know the size of my arrays.
Close SSH connection and change IP address at the same time
How can i get every line of a text file separately using C
Not reading correct value in file handling in C
SDL_SaveBMP saves images upside down
How to use function srand() with time.h?
What does this mean and how do I rectify it *** stack smashing detected ***: ./array1output terminated This is the code.
function to print linked list in reverse order
Access to existing fields in a large C/C++ project
Transpiling to C vs C++ : range of CPU instructions
Redirecting a list of pointers from one structure to another
TCP socket read/write freezes server
Serialization in C with malloc Searching all the web for ways to serialize data in C so I could send a struct over a  TCP/IP socket, I couldn't find anything simple. 
C: realloc works on Linux, but not on Windows
Count dynamic libraries loadings I need to make a C dynamic library (DL, with extension .so), which can count how many programs have loaded it at runtime.
C multidimensional arrays and dereferencing array pointers
Writing to closed file descriptor doesn't raise error
Allocation of Return Values of User Defined Functions: Performance?
Does changing v4l2 default settings improves usb camera performance?
How can I create a netcat type listener using C?
Call a function in C++ by its address without knowing the return type
Multiple successive declarations/definitions on same indentation level
Saving C Binary search tree to txt file I am doing a C BST library and im trying to do a function that will save the binary search tree into a text file.
Why I am getting junk character in the end of every C program I am writing
C 3d array pointer decay with & and without 
C- HTTP web server: how to cache I know that by using wget INSIDE my c program for the server, this is possible.
getchar and EOF I was working on the following example of C code from Deitel & Deitel.
No directory as /usr/src/linux-2.x/include/asm-i386/unistd.h
Infix to post-fix expression following is the infix expression
comparing number with special character
Can ctags search for conditional loops in the code
OpenGL, object blinking when moving I'm new to OpenGL, and I'm trying to move an object using the mouse.
Why is a non-static variable in a function being initialized to 0 and why is it becoming static?
What does *-- notation do in C?
Why can a struct contain a pointer to another struct that is not defined?
Adding an element to the end in linked list C program
Array as function with arguments?
Extracting bits from uint8_t type array
Write a file in c of an array of integers with fputc
C - Can't store file into an array of strings (based off line break) I'm pretty new to C and someone "challenged" me to try and create a sorting program using C.
Error: Segmentation Fault 11 in Palindrome
Replace a word in C can you advice me?
Safe programming. How to avoid TOCTOU vulnerability when checking a file and then writing in it
Addition without using a + sign
Why does the compiler optimize away shared memory reads due to strncmp() even if volatile keyword is used?
Printf called before scanf inside forked process in C
Export Public Key and Private Key from EC_KEY OpenSSL into SecKeyRef
What type of delimiter is being used?
Portable BIT macro in CI have a bare meta
having trouble with while-loop in battle ship program in c I'm trying to make a battle ship program.
MPI_Waitsome is Failing I am attempting to use the MPI_Waitsome function but with a different array of indices (and outcount) dependent on the processor rank.
Getting address of a variable in pointer using function in C I have a case that I need address of a variable in a pointer.
Void function: removing elements from an array?
typedef struct clarification
New to programming. Need help adjusting code to allow for undetermined number of students
how do I make sure that the user is entering a integer in c?
printing wrong character from file?
the code is giving error during compilation, please explain
Dynamically-resizing a matrix causes segmentation fault
Seg fault from within my print function after reading in a file in c
How to get the node name or path of the character device in kernel I've got "n" character device in one kernel driver.
Using argv and strcmp at C I am having some problem to use the strcmp function.
malloc return value as while condition
C programming - assigning a character to braille dots
Stop reading from fgets if there are too many characters So i have a char array and using fgets I store the string into my fgets.
An optimized algorithm or a method to find a multi word string (keywords) in a sentence (that has multi words)?
sizeof compound literal array
C - Seek to beginning of stdout I am looking for a way to seek to a beginning of stdout.
How to handle recv() returning -1 from Browser on HTTP Server?
Reading in a listI've to code a program that reads in a list of student's names and ids and sort them based on first name, last name, and id.
What makes fgets() actually wait for user input if pointed to stdin?
Converting an int to uint8_t array HEX value I'd like to take an int, and convert it into uint8_t array of hex numbers? 
retrieve letter from string in C
Is there any other way to output the data only when the program reaches the end of program?
split words into letter and replace the letters with something else
C - mallocing a structure containing various variables gives segfault
Array of structure, strange when printing users older than
How to map a C function to Java Native Method using Java Cpp In JavaCpp github wiki, I notice that it have Tutorial about access C++ class.
C: Sorting order from file input, receiving an abundance of compilation error
Correct Subscript Ordering for Two Dimensional Arrays
C Programming: passing struct as a parameter - Function I am trying Add a new ITEM to G I array, but this doesn't seem to work. 
mov ds, ax shows 0xC0000005 error in Visual Studio
How to use fread() to read 2 integers in a line?
Running program from console with parameters
C Buffer Pointer different memory locations In order to process data, a function requires a pointer to a data buffer.
C Radix sort array of string First I want to thank you that you allow me to take your time.
Built-in function to get curand's curandStatus_t as string
Getting the volume label of a Fat12 disk in C
How to format a number from 1123456789 to 1,123,456,789 in C? How can I in C language format a number from 1123456789 to 1,123,456,789?
Distinguishing between entered commands in C I am working on a project in C.
c++ how to get "one digit exponent" with printf
Compare hexadecimal character array
Writing to a file in C not working I have the following code, and I keep on getting the "Program has stopped working" error after I have input the characters. 
Affine cipher gets the same key in C language I tried to encrypt an affine cipher reading from text file.
How to tell gcc to disable padding inside struct?
OpenGL - Allocating data to a list in C and using it in gl Buffer Data doesn't work correctly
How to read the output of another process in Linux CI am a c++ guy, new to Linux C.
2 thread parallel in linuxI just begin to implement thread.
Storing Strings in a Structure
Behaviour of printf using length subspecifier with a string
Function return Char array CI try to return char array from function.
Finding the position of a substring in a larger string
Program not receiving required input I have a problem with my homework.
How to sort strings from a file by giving each line an ordered index using insertion sort in C
Preferring shortest possible types
Invalid write/read of size 8Working on some C code working with Matrices.
semaphore hogging by one process
How to compile a 32bit hello world on alpine?
C - Segmentation fault with pointer to array i'm hoping someone can help me with this little piece of code.
Files -- does not proceed to get input I have a test tomorrow and files confuse me a lot.
How to exit from Contiki code?
Getting result 1 more, divisor counting Program - C
Pointer Variable and String copying - C
Basic sort function, having difficulty initializing my array correctly
Linked lists in c, struct of struct, segmentation fault I'm trying to implement a train structure in c.
I'm confused by this. Won't the array contents stay the same? What will be the contents of the a array after the following statements are executed? 
How to get value of a variable before a loop after loop is executed?
what does "Undefined symbols for architecture x86_64:" mean in c?
Trying to find the parent of a node in a binary tree
How to use epoll and make the handler functions non-blocking?
Custom CMake configuration type. 
Difference between scanf's width specification and scanf_sscanf_s("%s", a, 10);
getname is an unknown symbol in Linux
C Code declares expected variable type after function call
How to use only 2 pins by not affecting others pin?
Casting double to int using gcc yields weird results
Run-Time Check Failure #3 - The variable 'name_t' is being used without being initialized
Copy lowest bytes of an unsigned long long to array in C
STM8 interrupt serial receive
Inserting text item into List view without an associated icon I have a simple list view which has an image list added to it.
How to convert an unsigned char* into char*I want to convert unsigned char* to char*, print the value and again convert char* to unsigned char*.
why is printf() changing char* valueint
How scanf function works in C?
find special cases while comparing files in reverse order
c memset pointer array I have a dynamic allocation of my pointer array with a length of 10. 
How to understand changing key value in insertion sort?
Error message "Thread1:signal SIGABRT" on "return 0" I wrote a code in C-programming trying to search words in a string and replace this words with other words. 
Can a windows client access the server registry when RPC is already opened?
Why does enclosing increment operator in parentheses not make a difference? Why is that the same and where is documentation backing this up?
How would I get strtok() to return the decimal number and not whole numbers?
I've added a MAX7320 i2c output chip. How can I get the kernel to load the driver for it?
Solving for the date and days passed via functions
Reading from socket streamI want to create a simple request / response application in C using sockets.
How can I reimplement this function as tail-recursion or otherwise use less memory?
Why does my linked list code produce a segmentation fault when deleting the head node?
#define macro causing segmentation fault or something else causing segfault?
How to find age of a person in years, months and days (ignoring Leap Year) without using Library functions in C?
Why is my output a null?
using s scanf to read string with spaces from char[]
Deleting all structure entries in C Programming I am having trouble deleting all entries into a defined structure. 
How to solve "control may reach end of non-void function" in C?
Find the duplicate element from an integer Last week I attended interview. 
Showing dead lock, using Pthreads, on Dining Philosophers
Referencing external global variables fails miserably
Hash function issue - adding functionality I tried adding functionality to the djb2 hash function, but it doesn't appear to like the changes.
Linking shared library to executable libourown.
Learning C pointers i cant figure out why this is not working (K&R excercise 5-2)
C Program using a function to round a floating- point number to 3 digits after the decimal? 
why memset fill 0 in 2d array correctly but fail to fill 1 in that array?
Function to free a struct in C I'm having a problem where when I call a function I wrote to free a struct my program terminates on the first free instruction.
How to implement an infix calculator with precedence and associativity
Reading from a file with fopen: is a char** returned correctly?
I'm trying to get this program to ask for the book title and number but something is not right with the while loop
Unexpected return value ^M from getchar / putchar when reading a file
Count number of lines in the input I was trying to calculate the number of lines in the input given by the user.
How can I have in a __m128 variable a whole complex number?
convert signed to unsigned value in C I have got a negative value somehow which I need the equivalent positive value.
how to dlopen so file in apache module development with apxs
malloc is not working properly?
Opening a device file fails due to No such device or address
Strange behavior in buffer overflow exploit without gdb
Optimize Boolean Mask Assignment This question is similar in nature to: Is -!(condition) a correct way to obtain a full-bitvector from a boolean (mask-boolean)?
Getting rid of || or's in C programmingI'm using || so that if the user types in a Y or y it equals the same.
void function parameter in both the definition and declaration?
Reasons for SetEntriesInAc l error 87 in MSDN sampleI do not know a lot about security descriptors for windows. 
Wine Close Button On Top BarIf "Allow windows manager to decorate window" is on.
Interesting pointer behaviour with scanf and while loop I am a web developer and studying C in my spare time.
Bus Error when writing to mmaped data When I first made this project last semester, the code worked fine.
Null pointer with unsigned char in cI'm constructing an unsigned char * in c and I want to know how I finish it. 
OpenCV using cvImageCreate() with grayscale image fails, and resizing usually fails
get file name case sensitive I read in an xml-file in c-code.
Conflicting types for C method using jni?
error while loading shared libraries: libflann.so.1.8: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory I tried compiling flann library on remote server.
Polynomial in Circular Linked List While printing the polynomial the first coefficient and exponent are getting printed repeatedly for n( no of terms ) times.
C program using array char* crash I want to build a program that allow to insert name and print out.
how to use mq_setattr() in c I got the required message queue arguments using the following code.
Adding value to array in C doesn't work I want to add a string to a string array but it doesn't work.
WIFEXITED WIFEXITSTATUS macros I'm using the luajit ffi library to call into the C library function waitpid.
How to name processes and insert values in respective process as named in UNIX
Number of calulations/steps in each line of an algorithm I have a function here that I can see is O(N^2).
inverting bitmap colors using C doesn't change the image
cypher alphabet to array - capitalized and grouped
What does a for (;;) loop do
How can I handle 'processor mismatch' warnings without silencing them or including custom built copies of the dependencies?
Array same element in C c finding the array of the same element
twos complement range in c 
What happens to the array elements when changing the pointer (C)?
segmentation fault in fgets, trying to run shell command in c program
Selecting CLOB in Oracle using C and embedded SQL
Compiling C Libraries to be linked in C++ builds... do you need to specify C++ standards?
Assigning a random value to an array
printf differentiating between a character and a number
Insertion in Circular Linked List (output not coming as desired)
C language calling nested function I know that C does not support nested functions and it's only a gcc extension. 
Why do C fundamental types have identifiers with multiple keywords
Reverse pyramid using same row number I encountered the following question which ask you to print the reverse pyramid.
Raytracing in C - Cylinder, normal vector and rotation
C programming - how to use a While loop for save user's values in an array
How to exit infinite for(;TRUE;) in C?
What are #pragma equivalencies in gcc?
sprintf to copy int into string in C I'm trying to convert an integer to string using sprintf but it's not working as expected.
What is the meaning of expression a = b != c; I have the following code that I don't understand
C, memory corruption(fast) error on free()
Dynamic array of int pointers causing segmentation fault
Android/Tensorflow: Why is Random Shuffle Queue needed for testing?
How to exploit printf vulnerability for different input methods?
C - execution time of program in millseconds using <time.h>
Finding the dimensions of an array through assembly I have an assignment to reverse engineer the assembly to find the values of R, S, and T in the following code.
How to use dup and or dup2 to redirect standard out into a pipe, then out to antoher pipe and then back out to standard out?
Is it not type safe if you are allowed to assign an int to a float (or vice-versa)?
How to get average distance between 3 points
printf() prints string without newline to stdout in line buffer mode after scanf()
Delay measurement and synchronisation between raspberry pi I am doing a project with 2 raspberry pi which work as servers and a laptop which is the client.
C - Constructor, better to return struct or pointer to struct?
Convert double value to uint_8 type array I'm new to C development.
Casting cost addressing pointer in c from unsigned char * to const char *?
Code blocks output console has stopped working
Wrap a function that takes a struct of optional arguments using kwargsIn C
C Cannot Access Memory at Address
invalid controlling predicate' error when compiled with-fopenmpvoid random
How do I follow value propagation through function calls with GDB reverse debugging?
select() on STDIN and Incoming Socket
Can num++ be atomic for 'int num'?
Function with a pointer in its declaration. Why?
Why is array[i][-1] == 0? How does one prevent undefined variables from being used?
GCC cross compiler (for ARM micro) complains about 'non supported floating point ABI' at a function where no FP instruction is present
C - reading lines from file I am trying to read line by line from a file and print out the line.
FFmpeg AVFrame Audio Data Modification
Extra integer in the outputI wrote a program which takes an integer and depending upon that number takes further action, like calculating Factorial, Fibonacci and Exiting the program.  
How to get address range for different memory section in C?
Standard I/O stream -- fgets() buffering type The book "advanced programming in unix environment" discussed pipe in chapter 15, it shows that we should pay attention to the buffering type when deal with standard I/O functions. 
OpenGL 3.0 glVertexAttribPointer: legacy works, forward compatible (core) doesn’t
Swift 3: Compilation error converting String Array to C Char Array
GCC: How do i change the base adress
C: Swapping musical keyboard notes using call by reference I need to make a C program which provides for users to play a song and create a song via PC keyboard. 
Socket - sending a big string in c
Contents of variables are unexpectedly changing?
Meaning of errno constant EMEDIUMTYPE Recently
What does the "install" function mean in C syntax?
C: for (i=0;i<=N;i++) { t[i] = pow(a,0.i); } ALWAYS returning 1 C programming
Error in code used to calculate no. of sweets a customer buys providing banknotes
c good programing practice using #define and hex values instead of decimal
Vectorized memcpy that beats _intel_fast_memcpy?
Using system() after fopen() and before the corresponding fclose() (file descriptor leak)
How to compile with an another libC on Linux?
Error 234, more data is available, with RegQueryInfoKey and RegEnumValue
Unable to print tokens in game boardI am writing a simple board game. 
Power of "number" accumulating in an Array I got a formula in a program that depends on accumulating the power of a number inside an array.
Spawning after time passed in C I'm making simple game and trying to make char spawn after 5 sec from the start of the game.
Strange behavior while using C's getline() I have encountered some strange behavior in the getline function while writing a small c program.
How to get the universal Principal Name Object from smartcard?
OpenCL kernel float division gives different result I have a OpenCL kernel for some computation.
ASN source code unexpected TOK_capitalreference, expecting '} 'While completion ASN.1 source code giving error: "ASN.1 grammar parse error near line 19 (token "IDENTIFIED"): syntax error, unexpected TOK_capitalreference, expecting '}'
C program crashes after printing few lines I have written this piece of code in C, but when I run it, the program crashes after printing few lines.
This pipe program is not compiling
Concatenation of two strings into one in C
Trying to do simple do_operation function in C
Using switch statement to make a simple calculator I created a program of using 'switch' statement to make a simple calculator.
what is wrong with this code? (to check whether a given number is a prime number)
Disallow input at certain times I have got a text based game in c that uses scanf.
sscanf returning -1 while scaning short int from a memory pointer in c?
I am getting a SegFault error, but why?
Segmentation fault Error comes
Bit hack: Expanding bits I am trying to convert a uint16_t input to a uint32_t bit mask.
What's wrong with this function that shortens strings?
Socket Server Memory usage goes up, becomes unresponsive
Type casting error in pointer in C
What makes this saved array different from the loaded array?
Permission denied after a compilation error occured I am working on this piece of code, trying to learn basic C programming. 
How exactly does sockaddr_storage work?
Getting input as string and Printing I'm trying to write a mastermind program but I'm stuck with string inputs.
Add header #ifndef into C header files in current directory
hook audio streams on microphone devices in C
Reversing only the order of a Sentence in C
Arrangement of 2 by 2 condition in if statement in C-family language
Trouble understanding fork() output
How to read from a text file I made in C I am new to C, I am just trying to read a simple text file I created in C.
data type conversion in C
Ignore SIGQUIT once I am trying to write a function to install a signal handler on a process to ignore a SIGQUIT signal the first time it is called and then exit on the second SIGQUIT signal. 
C random number generator generate sometimes the same numbers
c++ different print behavior between values and variables
PInvoke - Marshal an array of structs from pointer
Explanation of packed attribute in C
How to properly free() my mallocs in c I need to have a dynamic array so I have used malloc in my code.
Draw 2D and 3D in the same OpenGL window I'm creating a 3D game with OpenGL and I would like to make a toolbar in the top of the window.
Reading a value with a timer in C I am writing a multiplication table program to help my niece learn.
Finding max value of char in C
Why the input "abc!!!" but the output is not "abc+++"?
Convert _mm_clmulepi64_si128 to vmull_{high}_p64
Pointers to pointers and realloc in C
Undefined reference when trying to use external library I am trying to incorporate a C library into some Rcpp code.
What happens when shutdown socket with SD_RECEIVE, but peer sends packet?
JNI IMU code not compiling "base operand of ‘->’ has non-pointer type ‘JNIEnv’" I'm working on a native module to allow use of the RPI sense hat in java and my native will not compile
Why doesn't the function printk() use a comma to separate parameters?
Does const struct pointer guarantee safety from memory corruption / crash issues?
AXIS2/C: wrong element type or null node (om_element.c)
About the pointer usage in C for an array and a normal value
Alignment and SSE strange behaviour I try to work with SSE and i faced with some strange behaviour.
unknown type name C vs C++
C programming with const parameter in function I have one doubt.
Unable to find error in C code When I execute the following code program exits before I get to input any string for word 2. i.e scanf-word2 is not executed. Why?
DrawText WinAPI Not Showing Result
Getting SSL_ERROR_SYSCALL for an incoming DTLS Connection on an existing DTLS Connection on the same port
Passing a string to strdup from global pointer to a 2D VLA array of strings
json_object_put is not working on loopi worked with json-c library in C language.
Floating-point zero in C implementations (IEEE 754 invariants?)
how to calculate the number of days between two different dates
UPNP - Bind between Device and Services (miniupnp) I am using miniupnp SW package running on my router.
ISR for Timer Compare Match not runningso basically I'm trying set up a ISR(Interrupt subroutine) to simply turn a light on, but the ISR doesn't seem to run.
Why this reverse function can not work in the for loop?
*file f_flags setup in linux devicei'm write a linux device module, and i need an ioct
for which test cases did the code go wrong? 
Why we address registers in micro-controller programming like this why when we write address for register we add offset to the the base address?
Memory alignment while using attribute aligned(1) I'm debugging the following code snippet to analyze byte alignment of structure members.
miniupnpssdpd query for number of connected devices failed
Transferring Fortran multiD arrays to C I am having issues transferring 3D arrays from Fortran to C.
C Make not compile on raspberry I'm new with c make.
Raspberry PI multiple ethernet server listener I have a simple TCP server listener program running on the third generation raspberry pi. 
How to get the size of kernel functions when compiling linux kernel?
NET-SNMP agent trap v3 configuration I am trying to implement agent trap v3 sender using net-snmp.
C static inline parameter evaluation optimization Assume an API in which every function returns an error code which is zero in case of no error and nonzero for error values.
Reading a program's own memory as data
arithmetic operation differs if variable is char or int
Difference between ANDing with bitwise shift and hex values
Using Lapack Fortran in eclipse C++ project?
Arm scatter file issueSo I'm relatively new with arm and I'm having problems with scatter files. 
FFmpeg scale image do not use command way
From propietary format to c++ classes
While file data with regex I have problem on while file data on get only regular expession.
How to filter out "_id" from mongodb C driver results
Interactivity w/ Standard-In via pseudo-runloop blocks program execution
Find a triplet with sum=0 in a BST - Time complexity with below code I wrote the below code for finding a Triplet in a BST that adds upto 0. 
printf crashes after successful printing Language is C. 
memcpy in Abstract Data Type List Array based in C
Arrays in and out of Struct with user input
Create Polygon Rgn and const POINT * I give you only the lines concerning my problem.
How to catch all udp messages like Wireshark without drops?
Convert const char* to binary operator+ I'm stuck at trying to figure out the correct data types for T1 and P1 (see below).
Can I use only one header for a bigger application?
Neighbor function optimization to solve 8-Puzzle using A*-Algorithm
Determine number of printf arguments Is there a standard C/C++ function that, given a printf format string, returns the number of arguments it expects? 
#program in C - How read a word and the line of this word in a .txt?
libcur l crashes at fwrite() when I set READ DATA and READFUNCTION to upload a file I want to use libcur l to chunked upload a file to remote Http server.
Difference between char * and char (*)[25]
Desiging Shellcode gives incorrect results
Write C function that returns int to Fortran
How to print results with signs when calculation is done on array in C language I am trying to do SPI transfer in a raspberry pi.
C union containing structs - memory mapping - compiler skips one byte?
How to compile .c .h .so file?
bluez scan enable/disable connection time out I was writing client were I'm continuously enabling and disabling scan after each constant time intervals(e.g every 4sec),
Not returning string. This program converts digit like 123 to words like "One Two Three", why in the end I am not getting anything?
Start Linphone MediaStreamer2 Audio & Video Stream Together
Error using library functions of cygwin compiled dll in visual studio I am trying to call cygwin compiled dll in wisual studio environment.
What is the issue with the following code?
Character Array Initialization
Use Python in C
segmentation fault when assigning a value to de-referenced double pointer
Linked List - Stack Building - C - Is this tutorial correct
Paint child window that overflows outside top-level windowIs it possible to paint my child window that overflows outside its parent top-level window?
Get length of 2-D array in C
MPI_Barrier - Only some processes passes the barrier I'm facing a situation where only some processes bypass the MPI_Barrier function.
Realloc array of pointers to an Struct in C
Change default output stream on argp By default argp uses stdout.
What is the maximum size I can use in "shmget" system call?
C stack frame tracing I'm trying my hand at stack smashing to follow along with a security text I have. 
C Integer Behavior: Dividing by Zero
Why cannot use * alongside . to visit a member of structure?
Not printing a full line, just chunks in C?
Using custom hardware decoder with chromium browser?
MQTT synchronous message reception at the subscriber I have a simple publisher and a subscriber written in C.
C/C++ Compiler that allows int width selection Does anyone know of a modern native Windows C or C++ compiler that allows you to select between 16-bit and 32-bit type int?
Cannot display all the element of my array in C?