My app is crashing after I clicked the call buttton I am a starter in Android Studio, my app works fine but crasher every time i click the call button
Browser requests file larger than original file sizeI am creating a video play function on my website.
How to extract both positive and negative integers from a string input in java which has the input pattern as given below?
png images in html content are not showing up on gmail client for the email sent from java program
Java server becomes unresponsive once listening started I'm trying to make a basic client-server program in Java.
Crash occurring on some devices and not on others with Index Out Of Bounds exception | Android I have a really huge problems.
Java that will scan the total cost of a quantity how to get the total cost of this java program
Intermediate javax.ejb.EJBException: java.lang.Null Pointer Exception in Jboss application 
Images showing in scene builder, but not after compilation
How to sort the files in the directory in java using File Handling In this program
How do I fix this "Duplicate class error" in Android Studio How do I fix this when I try to build my android app.
How get only year with type XML Gregorian Calendar i have a XML Jaxb class to set with XML Gregorian Calendar type.
Not overrunning an array limit? [duplicate]
Class Cast Exception occurs when I am trying the Blaze Persistence documentation sample 
Java Mybatis sql inserting data in a table with composite key where both key parameter as foreign keys I'm trying to make a User-Bundle relation
Reflect env variable reload to java bean public static final String
Similar to Vending Machine Closed. This question needs debugging details. 
Class is not abstract and does not override abstract method keyReleased(KeyEvent) in KeyListener 
Wrap the Controller Response into Another Object Consider the below Controller method,
Wrong result meta data when using pagination with Balze-Persistence 
How to choose appropriate chunk Size and num Direct Arenas for netty
How to use a hashmap to set characters equal to different characters?
Live Data with sqlite not updating UI
Java BigInteger source code performance benchmark [duplicate]
Spring Cloud stream - Routing to multiple destinations stream Bridge
I'm having a visual bug with the underlines in Visual Studio Code and I can't a reference of it anywhereThe error shows with import issues, as far as I can recall.
Java - How to compare list of different Object types
Alpine with jdk11 as base docker image
How to update particular cell using POI without modifying any other data at the same row?
Set network tag for Dataflow flex launcher
Writing an Algorithm Closed.
How can I validate user registration form with Java Spring Boot?
How to provide inputs for prompt in neovim?
question about BeatBox.class at 13 chapter from K.Syerra B.Beyts book "Java learning for beginers"Below is a code creating BeatBox using midi files and swing components.
Clicks not working in selenium webdriver using java - Eclipse for java developers I'm tying to make traffic bot to earn from short links.
How to deploy .war file with fixed path in Tomcat?
How to put the number in to array like this
How can I mock the private method inside the method
export PATH=$PWD not working for Gentoo Linux for Raspberry Pi 
Java inner class and static nested class
Why can't Maven Tycho find the correct JDK in toolchains.xml?
Trouble Loading is shown when open FB page from Android application
No code coverage for my Spring batch project with SonarQube
if statement isn't working if user answers no java Closed.
Using Multiple versions of Java on my mac
How can I reach End Of File?
What is a NullPointerException, and how do I fix it?
List view click items only detecting double click and not single click event
Why I can not read some https pages with java code?
Cast exception using Rest Assured/Apache http client config
How to find the timezone id for a time from a string for example "19-Jul-21 1:08:22 PM BST"?
Circular View Path Exception in Spring Boot
java iterating problems. 
How to avoid casting when accessing subclass variables from ArrayList of type super
Can mockito-inline mock private methods?
DateTimeParseException unexpected result Closed. 
3 and higher columnCount cause bug Android Studio
Is there a way to find if there is a specific sum in an array without using a nested loop?
When running a c program on console, why isn't command "c" used (unlike python or java)?
XSLT - masking data - Conditional on other tags
Do I always need a web server with spring integration?
Netbeans conditional Field Breakpoint - check on new assigned value
Program to write a string in reverse using a certain pattern Closed.
Job scheduling on a separate thread in dropwizard 
findViewById returns "null" in a custom view
How to call post api on button click without form tag?
why keyclock shows error "You are already authenticated as different user '0000000021' in this session. Please sign out first."?
LWJGL on macOS : trying to have shader but nothing is renderedI am following a tutorial to learn LWJGL, but nothing appears on the window.
I have two Ids in the same Row where the Id is seperated by Comma and wanted only one Id how to get that Any Leads
How to put and get an Class Instance from net.sf.json.JSONObject I am using net.sf.json package for handling json.
Spring Boot app on AWS EC2 only running on localhost
how to make java JFR to include the time stamp in the file on dump Start Flight Recording filename with time stamp
How to click an element which is visible only on mouse hover - selenium java
configuring Selenium driver to use Socks5 proxy 
Resolve Path recursively 
Java Spring SQL Integrity Constraint Violation Exception - Duplicate entry for key
Mass Indexer does not index anything 
How can I pass parameters to a constructor of a class that uses @Required Args Constructor?
Intelli J and SonarQube, Local Variable is redundant 
Why is IntelliJ giving me the name of the package and the name of another package in brackets?
Purpose behind showing InvocationTargetException in the console rather than No Class Def Found Error at very first timeI got an exception message saying  java.lang.reflect.Invocation Target Exception.
How to redirect two types of users to different activity in Anroid studio using firebase auth 
Reuse an existing id if exist in the database
How to pass a variable from java file to a batch file?
(java.nio.file.NoSuchFileException) in my code? 
I use LWJGL and the JOML library, but when I multiply matrices it doesn't work 
junit core java reverse string test case
Intelli J Search Template /Custom Inspection: Analyse sibling annotation 
Java Spring Rest Template get 1 object from apiI
Scanner#nextDouble fails to parse 5.2 (Input Mismatch Exception)
The POM for org.olap4j:olap4j:jar:0.9.7.309-JS-3 is missing, no dependency information available
What is a simple way to combine six numbers without using brute forceI have this sensor data.
How to add rows to filtered JTable? I'm trying to add rows to filtered JTable.
Is there a faster way to run a class without changing it to the main class?
Accepting Map<String, Object> in @Controller, but deserialize each Object into other specific classes
What is type class SI have a SQL database in a Gridgain cache and one column of that database is a short array.
Why do I keep receiving "i cannot be resolved to a variable"
Java code Detect Special character in CSV file Hi am looking for a java code that will detect special characters like below in a csv file.
Trying to call Java utill using python I have a task to encrypt a string using java class and replace the encrypted string into same file.
Spring Data Neo4j field annotation validation
I need help, apparently with "this" in static
Constraint joins for list based planning variables I am just starting out with Opta Planner and have a question about building constraints against lists planning variables.
Sum Array Specific Object In Java Spring How can i sum the spesific array in java here my respon json.
FHIR HAPI Validation for Combination of Elements I have custom Structure Definition based on Observation resource. 
Why does UTF-8 encoding not work for special character in process input stream?
Java streams - Map<key, List<VO>> to Map<key, List<String from VO> I've a Map<KeyString, List<MyVO>>.
Datadog wrong displaying of http.server.requests.count metric In my project we use spring-boot2 with actuator and datadog metrics 
How to define properties in TypeScript class through the database?
Hibernate - Query Works in MySQL WorkBench But Hibernate Throws Exception
How can I create all lowercase except for the last word?
Hashmaps or full fledged caches? There are several open-source cache implementations available in Java, like Guava Cache, Caffeine, etc.
Quarkus with Panache getting hibernate error HHH000183I built an application with Quarkus and I'm using Hibernate with Panache for the models.
elastic Search dynamic terms field I'd like to have a dynamic elastic template. When a terms field value doesn't exist in document I'd like to have a result.
How can i get the fields in firestore database which is inside Collection>Documents>Collection>Document?
Auto wired object is null while creating model I am struggeling with quiet an easy issue.
How can I make the outputs in one line without making them in one print order How can I make the outputs in one line without making them in one print order.
How do I move a table to the left if it is in a JPanel?
@Conditional On Property on a Bean, which must be loaded based on two conditions, coming from application. 
How to filter data from all the records when the records are paginated?
How to create a reusable instant (non-duration) Java FlightRecorder JFR event?
Add dynamically inflated view to 2 parent views
JUnit5 Order Execution - Order Annotation Ignored UP DATE:  I should have included the original POM file (below), and the fact that I did attempt solutions from JUnit's @TestMethodOrder annotation not working
How to convert ArrayList<int[]> into int[][] in javaI am working on a problem in which I performed many operations on an ArrayList<int[]>.
Float parsing with strange result compared to DoubleI just stumbled upon the following issue.
Why is java code X interrupted when other code that started code X, comes to the end?
Jython CP720 is not supported in this JVM so it can't be used in python.console.encoding I want to start using Jython
spring Jpa is not recognizing the correct Entity name inside @Query param
How to copy image/video from its URI I am trying to create whats app status saver.
How to provide runtime JVM arguments to created layered image using Spring Boot?
combining mutiple security configurations 
How to use JpaRepository for two different datasources?
Hibernate: can save the object, but cannot load it back Havint this models
Remote debugging of an application in another city Good day, I need to debug the application on a device in another city. How can I do that? 
Simple app is crashing I am just traying to change the visibility of some views
Jackson deserialization using JsonParser is skipping the first key value pair @context I am building a Jackson deserialization application that can handle the deserialization of CustomerList and Customer. Users can provide any input and based on the input the code will make the decision whether the provided input JSON is CustomerList or Single Customer.
Problem with connecting to Rest API that returns data in base64 format using Retrofit library I cannot connect to API with Retrofit, when data in api is encoded to base64. I worked with base64 before, but I made requests using Http Url Connection and decoded it using Java. But now I want to get data with a help of Retrofit library.  
upgrading gradle to 6.x error Could not set unknown property 'test Classes Dir' for task ':systemtest Run' of type org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.
Rest Easy not compatible with Jakarta RESTfull Web Services
Java Spring boot classpath I am trying to create a report and i am using Jasper Report to implement that.
How to parse JSON string without third-parties in JAVA
How can I loop the Try block until no exceptions are caught?
Why My Image Is Not Upload In Server And Alwyas Show User Not Register
Google Cloud fails to deploy app with message "No deployable artifacts were found. Unable to proceed.
Hibernate : how to create JPQL by concatenating strings?
How to add custom text to shared file using intent?
How to read xml file contents in java without giving any element node, tag etcIs there any way by giving only file path we can read all text content from xml file in java.
How do I create a custom PMD rule to check if an instance of DSLContext is begin referenced in a loop?
Saving the values temporarily I have a survey report app, where the user will fill in the data (text and images) but in case he wrote half the report while doing the survey and closed the app to continue later all the data is lost
My App Crashes When I click button that redirect to another website in recycleview adapter from firebase
Reversed recursive traversal B-TreeI have a B-Tree with a traverse function I found on GeeksForGeeks that does standard inorder traversal.
Why doesn't Spring create a Bean even tho it has a @Component annotation?
Get TextBox Paragraphs from Word Document using Apache POI We use Apache POI to do manipulations of Microsoft Word documents.
warehouse block in anylogicI'm facing an issue with the project I'm developing using Anylogic. 
How do I let the code know whether to run it manually or through a pipeline?
Trying to draw to a window in JFrame is not exactly working I'm trying to draw a rectangle to the screen based on mouse listeners.
How to keep duplicate spring bean in container.
Spring Boot - more cleaner or elegant way to pass multiple parameters to stored procedure spring data repository how pass multiple parameters as DTO or Entity class in arguments method of Repository interface Spring Data
How to get an application, which is running on a WebLogic server, write Shiro messages to a log file on the server?
Creating instance of child class from parent class based on some input
CSP blocking Websocket server connection I have a jhipster generated application where I want to add a websocket.
Eclipse says The constructor Email() is undefinedI am tring to expand on a tutorial I was following Java Project Step by step
How I do compare objects in a Array List against each other in Java
Can't connect Android Studio with SQL Server I am trying to connect my android studio application with my database to save the "Log in" that are made on the page.
Web program Tomcat JAVA? [duplicate]
Autowire bean in spring boot return null? 
I want to add Spread sheet WebService in Main Activity without call it from other class
Public reference to an object
Why jshell allows non-final free variables in lambda expressions?
Java Priority Queue: how to heapify a Collection with a custom Comparator?
Requests get dropped during springboot service pod rolloutI am using the Kubernetes cluster with docker. 
Global exception handler never get called in micronaut 3 with project reactor After upgrading the micronaut application from 2.5.12 to 3.0.0 and using the Project reactor as reactive stream. 
How to update Maven version?
REST-ASSURED posting empty request body for generated object I'm using rest assured to send a post with a generated body from a model class. 
How to use Custom Annotation in Java SE 11?
Exception thrown in a flat Map are ignored by on Error Resume operator 
Zabbix 5 Tomcat Jmx not supported itemsIm trying to use Template App Apache Tomcat JMX template for monitoring Tomcat 9
How to get a random video by hashtag using YouTube Java APII need a way of get a random YouTube video by hashtag.
Error extracting and using custom public modulesI was extracting a public module, and an error was reported while importing the public module.
how to escape part of json loaded as object 
Can someone explain me why this "random number" is allways the same (1)?
Local instance of the Multipart Utility class is thread safe in java?
how to make a client side api call that requires cert and has given me the .pem and .key files via spring boot 
Slow JCS Cache for one region I have an application where I'm processing thousands of records from a file and I'm storing them in a cache (LRU) using JCS library. I have created two regions for it as the records are processed twice (due to some business requirements).
SMS verification code request failed: unknown status code: 17093 nullI have an existing app which I have already tested on numerous occasions.
Preconditions and logging arguments should not require evaluation
Hibernate Mapping for Composite Key using xml 
why do the recycler in netty not restore all the items in the stack?
Async Java method for Azure Function App?
How do I use Proguard to optimize a War file?
Turn off browser logging from webdrivers in Selenium 4 I'm working on a Java (11) project where we need to do some testing using Edge-Chromium (which is running on Linux via a docker container), so I've had to upgrade the version of Selenium we are using to 4.0.0-beta-4.
Restrict user to input numbers
How to test if a jobject Class<?> reference is of a specific class (JNI)In JNI, how can I test if a jobject which is a Class<?> reference matches a class given by a jclass?
JavaFX Circle Linear Gradient Fill by Percentage I just want to make an indicator for customer how much he/she used his/hers data/sms/voice using two circles and linear-gradient, but some values are not behaving as wanted. How can I make them behave same as in the image on the left?
Minecraft 1.17.1 Mod en_us.json file not working I have a problem with my json file
Constraint Set get existing connection How do get the currently connected view for a given direction from a constraint set?
If I want to perform login on the service layer with shiro, how could it set cookie?
Kafka consumer not really acknowledge although used MANUAL_IMMEDIATE I have an app using Spring Boot 2.5.2
Spring serialization error for AmazonS3 client I've got a weird problem which I can't really understand.
Json Deserialize result of build to json 
Jsoup select method returning null when passed identical query string that returns results in google inspect element Document upgraded
Unexpected response code 406 - GET request for JS On Object using Volley - Android Studio 
Java 11 or newer is required to run the IDE Android studioWhen I try to update android studio to version
Translate Type script to Java 
Json to pojo online converter splits json to different classes
Android - Dynamic method call (java) 
Reference antecedent Java stream step without breaking the stream pipeline?
What is the difference between a member variable and a local variable?
Is there a way to use conditional predicate on a Java stream?
Check that two span classes are equal to text and click on the correct span element after 
java.time.format.DateTimeParseException: Text could not be parsed at index "dd.MM.yyyy HH:mm" 
session.invalidate() throws Illegal State Exception after request.logout() Environment
How to limit concurrent http requests with Mono & Flux I want to handle Flux to limit concurrent HTTP requests made by List of Mono.
Invalid message length Error in jpos when parsing the response from server I am sending request to iso server.
What are the possible causes for javac giving me an invalid flag error?
How do i concatenate a string in between to strings at run time?
how to make validation login false in spring boot security for count failed login 
Spring Boot Get a 500 Internal Server Error with Post method I`m trying to learn Spring Boot but am having trouble with Rest API. I have a table in MySQL and I am trying to add an employee to the table using the Post method but constantly get the 500 internal Server Error.
java.nio.Buffer Overflow Exception run-time error when data receive using broadcast receiver in Android?
Java 11 migration: Package is accessible from more than one module issue
Error running mab l test from Jenkins pipeline (mabl.javax.xml.bind.JAXBException)pipeline
Does EntityManager.getReference() matter if the entity is @Cached/@Cacheable?
The package org.json is accessible from more than one module: <unnamed>, org.json I am stuck to import this library to my classpath/modulepath.
Does RxJava Flowable generate function can produce more than one data sample in parallel?
Gradle composite build can't resolve transitive dependencies
Having space in front of logged messages in logback My Logback pattern in logback.xml file as follows
Value null in all relations ManyToOne with hibernateI want to establish a 1 to N relationship between the product and the supplier, so that a supplier can offer several products, but a product has only one supplier.
Hibernate upgrade 5.4 legacy-style query params ('?') for `NativeQuery` I am upgrading hibernate from 5.2.18 to 5.4.24.
How to use regex in java to manipulate the string
Verify with mockito that error with lambda arguments has been logged I am using log4j as a logger and want to use lambdas as arguments to the logmessage in order to make the evaluation of the message lazy in case the specific log level is not enabled:
Tomcat's Catalina utility threads are periodically using high CPU and memory We have a webapp that uses on average 20% CPU when idle, with no network traffic or any kind of requests.
Leak Canary: How to exactly interpret this memory leak log Can anyone please guide me on how to interpret the memory from the below-given log?
plugin.xml causing the build to fail in Intellij IDE So I want to build my own Intellij Idea plugin.
Accessing a remote neo4j database from an Android app 
Java JCR/Adobe AEM: How do I access the node directly without using queries?
How to select one Card view out of many Card views 
Why ParNew GC time rise with old generation size?
Unknown lifecycle phase
java.sql.SQLException: 'Field 'voc_id' doesn't have a default value'. using Spring JPA I'm trying to insert Voc, Recovery class in One to one relationship.
Identifying memory leak suspects
Best approach to maven project-specific scripts?
Complexity of getting average of array
Optimizing a naive missing word algorithm
Java - ExecutorService stops processing thread after a while 
CXF - Retrieve SOAP response XML from generated client I am currently generating async client code using wsdl-to-java which is being used to query a SOAP web service. 
Where to put static files such as CSS in a spring-boot project?
How maven dependency exclusion works for this scenarios
Cannot resolve method 'mapId' in 'Google Map Options' I am trying to add my modified map to app 
Does Session.getCurrentSession() closes without doing any transaction?
Is my usage of predicates here bad practice or extra?
Execution keeps timing out with this is 'do while' loopI try to run this on the IDE and it just won't run.
How to deal with missing/delayed server responses in synchronized requests?
Recommended Java Swing layouts to use for two same-size tables plus buttons 
How to obtain response data in Handler Interceptor‘s after Completion()
Sorting an Array List of Array List in lexicographical order 
app widget update text view on 12am everyday i have an app widget and i want to update the text view everyday on 12 am
Firebase Unique User Id, how to generate UUID like this 
Do while loop doesn't check the condition and loops forever
Why Completable Future did not execute in sequence?
How to fill an integer array with underscore in java 
My app is showing Runtime Exception when I am trying to run it from Android Studio on my phone I have given the code below. 
Intercepting java machine shutdown call?
Getting child node from Compilation Unit variable instance 
Count query generated by returning Page<> from Repository method crashes on org.hibernate.QueryException
Spring boot, Update/override application.properties value programatically/dynamically (JAVA)
Problem with footer only first page docx4j 
I want spring boot application which accepts https request and send this request to other app on http and send this http response back to https req
How would I print out a user input given the certain amount of inputs needed?
Build up a cipher instance manually without get Instance 
How to query using the regexp_matches function from postgres in spring JPA
how to read all the rows only from first column from excel using selenium java
Where do parameters get changed in GroupLayout?
Mongo Socket Open Exception: Exception opening socket for Primary node in MongoDB replica set
Does a transaction in Spring Boot with Jpa Transaction Manager support Isolation. SERIALIZABLE?
How to sort a Hash Map, values are integers.
Spring Redis save POJO as different types when using @Cacheable or @CachePut
Need help for Assignment! API usage for the first time on Ionic
Generating DTOs for XML XML
How to properly override close() method from java.io.Closeable to kill an object?
How can I prevent the user to put invalid data and how can I compare two data in spring boot mvc?
Aliasing usecase in elastic search
Is it possible to use ARCORE with Camera X?
Using pre-shared key from ESP32 to a Spring boot secure API I am trying to send some data from an ESP32 device to a secure spring boot API.
How to add data to linked tables?
Hibernate merge() is removing child objects but save Or Delete() is not?
Bottom Nagvigation View On click does not work navigation
NullPointerException : attempt to get length of null array
I am trying to Mock an autowired map of instances in spring but I get null pointer exceptionIn one of my controller
I'm trying run a spring bot application and it shows a Command Acceptance Exception error executing DDL My Model
How to find a possible set that sum to a given value
Build failure when adding jar file directly in java build path in maven based project and not adding its entry in pom file?
How to make KeyBinded labels not be able to leave the JFrame (For a game)
Constraints exception handling on weblogic by java hipster A project generated by Jhipster and deployed on weblogic server. Everythings works fine on weblogic server except constranits exceptions handling.
Jar file can't access Mysql database when moved to another computer What the title says, basically. 
How to get next month and previous month from String (Month and Year)
What is String to Zoned Date Time conversion error
Illegal access: this web application instance has been stopped already. 
Kafka Consumer Error Stream frame descriptor corrupted
Unable to put text more than one char for certain HTML input from Selenium Java In certain pages of an UI app, Selenium Java is unable to put text with more than one char into a HTML input text bar 
Null Pointer Exception in object array [duplicate]
Jackson deserialize date-time strings to long?
RabbitMQ error java.lang.Illegal Argument Exception: invalid value in table I am upgrading my application from Spring Boot 1.5 to 2.3 and the following rabbitmq code section throws java.lang.Illegal Argument Exception: invalid value in table
How to change View-elements in child Constraint Layout from parent Constraint Layout?
Uploading an image with Servlet File Upload gives two different file sizes on local environment vs aws environment
Getting 401 Unauthorized HTTP errors when trying to create collection with async flag
Multiple depended Combo-boxes in Swing
Quarkus Resource Test with preconditon of Resource Writing Component/Integration Tests. 
nginx proxy_pass can't got full response data from output stream
Access not inserting new values into table 
How to get bulk write metrics in Mongo DB Java driver 3.0 
How to prevent reflection only for some fields?
Android Java handler post 
Initialization of 2D Array in Java?
How to compile java in Vim 
having problem while call java class through jsp package  
java.nio.file.FileSystemException:storage/emulated/0/Download/..... :Operation not permitted in Android Studio while copying file
How to solve this java path error from android Studio?
How do I use setters from a Recycler View adapter within a Runn able object?
Why is my application failing to get file list?
PDF preview on a vaadin web application is taking longer time when using office network while it takes lesser time when using different network We inspected the network request details in both cases. Receiving stage takes more time. Even if there is some difference in network speed, it shouldn't be taken this long, right?
Jackson polymorphic tree-like structure deserialization
How to add a component like a button, programmatically from the java code instead of adding it from XML?
invalidate() in on Draw is not calling on Draw
Android Intent is not passing the variable from one class to another In Android Studio, I created a simple field called name. I want to pass this variable called name to the class called MainActivity2.
print text within some quotes in Java scanner(more info down in the body)
Sybase Jconn4 shifting decimals on whole number I'm facing a strange issue with Jconn4.
Dump http headers - Axis 1.4 I have to use a third party java library to consume some soap services.
Not able to serialize nested object with custon jackson parser
Unit Testing Flux.doOnNext() I have a method which takes a Flux as a parameter. Inside the method it then configures the Flux and another method subscribes to it.
Webflux-Aop:Get method request(Mono) in Aspect class 
Maven build fails but running jar file runs fine?
Button color not changing in android Studio
Java Files.move doesn't work "Operation not permitted" I want to use Files.
Effectively way of handling multiple parameters as input in GET Request 
JPA annotation replace characters on insert
how to sort number include decimal using java? 
Completable Future along with reading using File Reader, the program doesn't exit Backgroud
Java Null Pointer Exception after Login, so I'm developing my first app on android studio and I have a problem with my dashboard after I logged in I keep getting Java null pointer exception.
PEM file to RSA Private Key in Java I have a private key in .pem format. 
Eclipse and Maven: Error occured during initialization of boot layer Buongiorno
Java generics restrictions with interfaces abstract class
How do I track if activity has ended Android Studio 
REST Client Sub-resources return Abstract Method Error
Criteria Builder and Jquery DataTables - Custom query
How to remove certain Strings from a shared Preferences at the user's input in android studio
what is the best way to convert a date & time given in certain time Zone to UTC in java
Convert string to java friendly string Is there a native way to convert a given string into a java-friendly format in Power Shell?
Set Adapter cannot be applied as the adapter is of Firestore Recycler view Adapter 
Memory of Integer
What is the usage of root level default.json file in android project?
NoClassDefFoundError - missing dependencies in the classpath
AWS EC2 t3.medium | Maven slow compile
Why Alert Dialog doesn't work from Activty Recycle View Adapter
Removing whitespace from strings in Java
How to test @ModelAttrbiute in spring boot controller test?
Detect when a user cancels typing i would like to know if its possible to detect whenever a user presses the back button when in the EditText field.
No Class Def Found Error even though jar is in the module path Eclipse 
How switching pane frame with JX Browser 
strange <br> string in result of Google file diff
Python script in Android Studio Is there a way to make Android studio/Java execute a python program?
Transform and copy all properties of an object 
throwing custom exception of child class from a for each loop to parent class
How to test classes with private constructors TLDR Version
Writing Parquet file using Avro Parquet Writer to GCS
What is the recommended way of overriding version of a dependency from parent pom?
How to determine if two strings are permutable in java?
How do I create truststore and key store from the signed certificate?
How can I deploy two versions of a microservice at the same time in Open Shift?
Completable Future.get not waiting for final block
Hazelcast: clear and put All Currently, I'm putting my list of elements on a hazelcast map by this way
when to use AWS sync client vs AWS Async client
Spring Kafka Request Reply Partition pattern: Unable to commit offset after processing message
How to get JVM Heap Size of Running Spring Boot (Spring Web MVC) API (runtime)?
Scanner is skipping nextLine() after using next() or nextFoo()?
Oracle JDBC Thin driver : encoding issues
in spring boot maven jar build //// before build = working , after build = not working The problem is, before maven building, it was working very well in dev environment
My sqlite database is only inserting one item android studio (java)
Error inflating class android.support.v7.widget.Fit Windows Frame Layout
Vue.js and Springboot application error regarding login and captcha I am new to vue and Springboot, I have created a login site.
Why is BigDecimal("20") not equal to BigDecimal("2E+1")
javax.validation.constraints.Email rules applied to the field it is used Can I find a documentation where there are all the rules that the annotation @Email from javax.validation.constraints do for the field it is used.
Inlining an object with Jackson AnnotationsWith these classes
what is the "bad" or "problem" of being able to accessing an object's field like the example here
How to prevent tomcat message output when saving servlet in eclipse?
Using Flickr API from Java to upload images
JAXB compiler is binding xs:long to Java Long instead of primitive long class
How to get slave machine to connect to client on WSL machines 
Making a network call to update UI from within an observer method in Android Kotlin
Default Theme is not changing even after changing theme in styles xml From some while I am stuck at changing style for my android app.
Spring Data JPA: Prevent updating when using save All if Id exists I am using Spring Data JPA in writing list of objects with a composite key as an Id. Is there a convenient way to prevent saveAll from updating the record if the @Id already exists by throwing an error? I don't want to use exist method to check each record since the save method already does it. Maybe there is some configuration properties that can be set to achieve this?Spring WebClient - How to handle the errors on the body RestI'm a newbie with Spring Boot, and I need your help.
swagger shows attributes in a table as duplicateI tried to create a relational database.
How can we ignore the comma's inside barces while converting csv into bean or string array in java
Junk value added to the header when message sent to Azure event hub topic
The bean encountered a non-application exception
How can I access the data of an object without having to put its name?
Micronaut setter injectionMicronaut is not injecting @Value on a setter method. Is it not supported?
Is it possible to manually sort Firebase autogenerated keys?
How to fetch data from multiple columns in sqlite android using cursor 
Problem deploying a Java web app w/MySQL into a Digitalocean Ubuntu droplet
problem when running spring boot application : error 864 I am trying to make a very simple spring boot java program and here is all my data file.
JOptionPane.showInternalConfirmDialog() frame icon I have an application using a JDesktop Pane and I am using JOptionPane.showInternalConfirmDialog() to get confirmation from the user. The issue I am having is that no matter what I use as the parent, I always get the coffee cup as the frame icon. 
How to know programmatically if the system is in dual monitor mode?
contains with ObservableList () returns always false i am using Observable List in my JavaFX code
While connecting of my login page to MySql i am getting error of Communication Exception 
Spring Boot 2 after aop annotation I am trying to create a @after aop annotation to execute a code after the method got completed. I am facing issues when I pass with parameter.
How do I get the months to match up with the correct inputed number?
Maven Wrapper Lifecycle failing I am getting below error when I try to do a maven build using terminal from Intellij.
Split a string in java based on custom logic
Modelmapper issue while handling @OnetoOne mapping I have a an issue in using modelmapper to perform an update of a parent-child entity using @OneToOne.
Unable to get the output of python executed from Java
Using custom data types in jooq's condition expression
Areas Created by Winding Rules
How can I export a runnable jar file with resources?
HashSet loses the old element when adding a new one It is necessary for a HashSet to be defined in one class, and for me to access this HashSet from other classes and add data to it.
Can we use one pageobject among different pages?
DEPMOD File not found, how can i solve this?
Is there a compact way of identifying/storing classes?
Just want to know what am I doing wrong in my code?
Jackson faster xml deserialise list of objects as different objects based on their root element 
Junit Parameterized arrays Is there any way to test cases with arrays and not integers?
Eclipse Tomcat Maven I am working in a typical Java project setup(Eclipse,Tomcat ,Java).
While counting number of rows this code gives wrong result(usually more than the answer)?
mockito mock static function does not work if the function is called in a Threadandroid app, a java class needs to do something based on the Notification Manager's status.
Number of ways to form a mountain ranges
android how to play a beep at a certain frequency
AVA MYsql login form - login function does not work properly (Javafx)
Downloading and saving video into SD card does not show up (also not in Finder)
why did not generate enable Select By Primary Key when using mybatis generator
Thread safety in java multithreading 
Make ZGC run oftenZGC runs not often enough
Eclipse autocomplete not working for some source files
keystore.load() works but loadKeyMaterial() fails for the same keystore I'm trying to make an API call to an Axis2 API which requires a certificate. 
While deploying mule application in tomcat or jetty, How to change http endpoints to servlet endpoints in configuration.xml file?
in java I want to return in one line stream to map
ndex 26 out of bounds for length 26
Java Rest API to connect to Sharepoint I am trying to connect to Sharepoint using java of my web application.
Spring State Machine - JpaRepositoryStateMachine Not a managed type Error 
How to adjust daylight saving with Cron Scheduler
How do I determine the audio format of a online stream?
Progress of seek bar pointing null error on fragments  
Android App Locale Not Working on Play Store Release I'm changing the app locale at the press of a button. 
How to store user input date and pass them in sql query In order to make our code more usable.
Is there a way to use Android's Speech Recognition API to output true/false, even when the phone is off?
Peer List Listener is not working?
Redisson queue unique elements
Parse date string to a specific format in Java 
Why should I use Integer.parseInt(sc.nextLine()); in this program and not sc.nextInt()?
No Such Element Exception in Java. 
Can't find who handles the Access Denied Exception I wanted to secure my application by using jwt. 
How do you allow a user to retrieve values from a list in Java?
Android - Save Map<String, Object[]> to file How can I save this kind of map to file?
Android - Stripe payment in stripe.create Token deprecated Google play store giving me warning to upgrade stripe SDK to 16.9.0 version,
Pjsip library install java path enviroment error
Srping Batch - easiest way to get aggregated data (read, writes, step exit status, job exit status) from multiple Jobs/Steps run in the past
Permission denied while accessing file Android 11
get Screen shot As is giving null exception on webDriver 
How to input attribute into the webtest client 
Getting Stale Element Reference Exception while accessing the element from a list Below is the code which I am trying to get to work.
LocalDateTime.of returns null in test class
Not able to write string to temp file in spring boot i am creating temp file(outputFile) and writing text with Buffered Writer.
Password attempts in JFrame connected to SQL I created a JFrame log-in. 
Is this an efficient or even correct way of parsing serial data?
Edit text doesn't trigger for behind apps while floating view is active
Convert list to Map having key as sum of even numbers and value as sum of odd numbers using java 8 
The Image to be moved to JFrame is not displayed
i have 2 sound in 2 different files , and i want to play a sound if the first sound end I have two sounds and I want to play the first song after I press the button and after the sound ends to play the second sound.
How to convert TarArchiveOutputStream to byte array without saving into file system
FileNotFoundException when converting image to base64 kotlin
PayPal capture Authorization: get money immediately within an Angular Application I authorize an order and want to capture it later on the server (Spring Boot). The server request, I implemented like described here:
Convert hex string to png java 
Compare two JSON and also show activity which column we changed?
How to get data from DB using query param?
Integrate VPN into application desktop
Can you compare the Keys of a HashMap with a Set?
Return a value from a method which receives response in callback
java - ClassNotFoundException when trying to init a class which throws Exception
quarkus Multi<String> not quoting strings Background
Running a Java configured Spring MVC Application fails to load Application Context, raises 
How can i make for loop reading information from json object in java?
OpenCV in Java: how can I output all kind of symbols?
Setting JAVA_HOME for JDK 11 in Ubuntu for VSCODE How do I set JAVA_HOME for JDK 11 in Ubuntu for Visual Studio Code? 
How to order router mapping pattern to be last java spring boot
Override not-found exception handler in micronaut
How to wait until Data is successfully received from Firebase Database?
How to Resize Drawing using Swing Java using input
Can Apache cxf rest client proxy work with reactive interface
How To avoid stale element reference: element is not attached to the page document when I use a command to change the paage 
Spring Security - Error using @PreAuthorize("hasRole('ADMIN')") results in 404
groovy-all:3.0.8 in my build.gradle is downloading different jars versions 
How to receive EventGrid Events in the POST method of JAVA
Accessing hidden method Ldalvik/system/DexPathList;->findResource(Ljava/lang/String;)Ljava/net/URL; (greylist-max-o, linking, denied) creating url I'm trying to use the OMDB api to make a search app in Android Studio, 
Spring boot webclient calling api which returns XML response having 2GB best way to call
Very Simple Jade Question ( SEVERE: Cannot create agent)Firstly,
Serve static folder with Spring Boot and React Router
Create jks file without password To create a jks file I run the following commands
How to properly find child element of a Web Element in Selenium Java
An error when running JUnit Test for my web project in Netbeans 8.2 RC said: Need to specify class name in environment or system property When I run my test class, it threw this error:
JwtDecoder prevents application from building 
Java using VS building with Maven Failed to get sources of local jar files
Categories with n-level sub categories using node js + MySQL
Java spring test form endpoint I want to create test to test my insert form endpoint.
StackOverlow Error when building project with maven I am running the commands clean,install to build the project.(maven으로 프로젝트를 빌드할 때 StackOverlow 오류가 발생합니다. clean,install 명령을 실행하여 프로젝트를 빌드합니다.)
Ashot screen shot does not correctly crop the element from screen shot(Ashot 스크린샷이 스크린샷에서 요소를 올바르게 자르지 않습니다.)
Issue Downloading Plain Text File in Spring Controller from Web App(Web App에서 Spring Controller의 일반 텍스트 파일 다운로드 문제)
Ktor sample code is not running after creating new project(새 프로젝트를 만든 후 Ktor 샘플 코드가 실행되지 않습니다.)
How to get uri a file with intent action pick(의도 작업 선택으로 파일을 가져오는 방법)
JMeter Selenium Web Driver Integration Issue(JMeter Selenium 웹 드라이버 통합 문제)
Union two or more entities and merge into one list(둘 이상의 엔티티를 결합하고 하나의 목록으로 병합)
What is difference between Mockito.spy(List.class) and Mockito.spy(new ArrayList())?(Mockito.spy(List.class)와 Mockito.spy(new ArrayList())의 차이점은 무엇입니까?)
Convert android Android Icon to Bitmap in Android(Android Android 아이콘을 Android에서 비트맵으로 변환)
Error connecting to Azure Blob Storage Service with Java(Java를 사용하여 Azure Blob Storage 서비스에 연결하는 동안 오류가 발생했습니다.)
Serial communication between arduino and java 'fatal error detected'(arduino와 Java 간의 직렬 통신 '치명적인 오류가 감지되었습니다')
SQLite Delete function working but not deleting entry(SQLite 삭제 기능이 작동하지만 항목을 삭제하지 않음)
Authenticate Gradle to Azure Artifacts Maven I want to authenticate an Azure pipeline to Azure DevOps Artifacts, for which I have the vsts Feed Id handy(Azure Artifacts Maven에 대한 Gradle 인증 Azure DevOps Artifacts에 대한 Azure 파이프라인을 인증하고 싶습니다.)
Java Discord4j how to send message to channel REST API?(Java Discord4j 채널 REST API에 메시지를 보내는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
How to pass object in url for controller?(컨트롤러의 URL에 객체를 전달하는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
why exception throw excute before thread finished sleep in kotlin(or java)thread(isDaemon = true)(스레드가 kotlin(또는 java)thread(isDaemon = true)에서 절전을 완료하기 전에 예외가 발생하는 이유)
Java cannot find imports in Class URL Connection.java(Java가 클래스 URL Connection.java에서 가져오기를 찾을 수 없습니다.)  
how do I add JRE to Spring Tool Suite(Spring Tool Suite에 JRE를 어떻게 추가합니까?)
QueryDSL Java Mongo SubQuery matching all condition returns incorrect result(모든 조건과 일치하는 QueryDSL Java Mongo 하위 쿼리가 잘못된 결과를 반환함)
Correct way to execute a Runnable after focus transfer(포커스 전송 후 Runnable을 실행하는 올바른 방법)
Expression to capture only 1 occurrence for a single character but multiple for others(단일 문자에 대해 한 번만 캡처하고 다른 문자에 대해 여러 번 캡처하는 표현식)
Java code refactor with stream Collectors.groupingby()(스트림 Collectors.groupingby()를 사용한 Java 코드 리팩터링)
How to mock static method calls from multiple classes in a single try block using Mockito?(Mockito를 사용하여 단일 try 블록에서 여러 클래스의 정적 메서드 호출을 조롱하는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
How to bypass spring security on an authenticated endpoint for specific domain?(특정 도메인의 인증된 엔드포인트에서 스프링 보안을 우회하는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
Can I serialize subclasses based on an external key with jackson?(jackson을 사용하여 외부 키를 기반으로 서브클래스를 직렬화할 수 있습니까?)
Flink how to compute over aggregated output of a keyed window(Flink 키가 있는 창의 집계된 출력을 계산하는 방법)
Apache Jena : convert json into json-ld 1.1 format(Apache Jena : json을 json-ld 1.1 형식으로 변환)
Spring Integration: Mapping - a default branch(Spring 통합: 매핑 - 기본 분기)
How to update a location in a map in android studio(Android Studio에서 지도의 위치를 ​​업데이트하는 방법)
Java 8 edit stream elements I need to filter and modify the values of the filtered object.(Java 8 편집 스트림 요소 필터링된 개체의 값을 필터링하고 수정해야 합니다.)
Find out which class/instance holds a reference to an open file(열린 파일에 대한 참조를 보유하는 클래스/인스턴스 찾기)
Java Comparing Two Arrays for Login(로그인을 위해 두 개의 배열을 비교하는 Java)
Is this the correct way of testing the avalanche effect of a hash function?(이것이 해시 함수의 눈사태 효과를 테스트하는 올바른 방법입니까?)
Adding XML Element in specific position JAVA(특정 위치에 XML 요소 추가하기 JAVA)
Auto Complete Text View does not work in View Holder(자동 완성 텍스트 보기가 보기 홀더에서 작동하지 않습니다.)
how to compare each element in array?(배열의 각 요소를 비교하는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
Java Getters and Setters are not working inside swing Action Listner(Java Getter 및 Setter가 스윙 액션 리스너 내에서 작동하지 않음)
I want the parquet file data to be into the below string format(쪽모이 세공 마루 파일 데이터를 아래 문자열 형식으로 만들고 싶습니다.)
java.lang.reflect.InaccessibleObjectException: Unable to make field private final byte[] java.lang.String.value accessible: 568 I am trying to test some API's using jbehave. While trying to configure my Jbehave stories i am running into the following error(java.lang.reflect.InaccessibleObjectException: 필드 비공개 final byte[]를 만들 수 없음 java.lang.String.value 액세스 가능: 568 jbehave를 사용하여 일부 API를 테스트하려고 합니다. 내 Jbehave 스토리를 구성하는 동안 다음 오류가 발생합니다.)  
Vaadin 8 to 14 migration: .cache.js file not found when running in eclipse(Vaadin 8에서 14로 마이그레이션: eclipse에서 실행할 때 .cache.js 파일을 찾을 수 없음)
Iterate Over Every Object Summary In Active S3 Bucket(활성 S3 버킷의 모든 객체 요약에 대해 반복)
How to map exception to response status code without explicit controller advice method?(명시적 컨트롤러 조언 방법 없이 예외를 응답 상태 코드에 매핑하는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
Error when connecting to MongoDB URI even though i can do with compass db or robot t3 tools(나침반 db 또는 로봇 t3 도구로 할 수 있지만 MongoDB URI에 연결할 때 오류)
Private members in Java inheritance I was told that for a Java subclass it can inherit all members of its superclass
Device not showing Android studio device preview even after changing style parent(스타일 부모를 변경한 후에도 Android 스튜디오 기기 미리보기를 표시하지 않는 기기)
GraphQLResolver throws "Value already present: Pojo.class"(GraphQLResolver에서 "값이 이미 존재함: Pojo.class"가 발생함)
Junit test cases for private reference and maps I am trying to learn junit testing and mockito.(개인 참조 및 지도에 대한 Junit 테스트 케이스 junit 테스트 및 mockito를 배우려고 합니다.)
It shows error in import org.apache.catalina.authenticator.SpnegoAuthenticator.AuthenticateAction;enter image description here(가져오기 org.apache.catalina.authenticator.SpnegoAuthenticator.AuthenticateAction에 오류가 표시됩니다. 여기에 이미지 설명을 입력하세요.)
Why can't I instantiate new objects using a for loop, to fill an array?(배열을 채우기 위해 for 루프를 사용하여 새 개체를 인스턴스화할 수 없는 이유는 무엇입니까?)
expandable recycler view implementation I'm trying to add expandable recy clerview to my app.(확장 가능한 재활용 보기 구현 내 앱에 확장 가능한 재활용 보기를 추가하려고 합니다.)
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: org/hibernate/service/ServiceRegistry(스레드 "main"의 예외 java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: org/hibernate/service/ServiceRegistry)
How could one draw a semibreve (whole note) in Java Swing?(Java Swing에서 어떻게 반음(전체 음표)을 그릴 수 있습니까?)
Merging Java Applications resources(Java 애플리케이션 리소스 병합)
How do i get the result of all the radio button from recycler and pass that to check the answers(리사이클러에서 모든 라디오 버튼의 결과를 얻고 답을 확인하기 위해 전달하는 방법)
Dependency 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-validation:2.5.1' not found(종속성 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-validation:2.5.1'을 찾을 수 없습니다.)How can I solve the issue of "Dependency 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-validation:2.5.1' not found" ?("Dependency 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-validation:2.5.1' not found" 문제를 어떻게 해결할 수 있습니까?)
Find missing negative element from array java(배열 자바에서 누락된 음수 요소 찾기)
Gradle tasks have no actions available in Eclipse(Gradle 작업에는 Eclipse에서 사용할 수 있는 작업이 없습니다.)
Java OpenGL rotate text from center point(Java OpenGL은 중심점에서 텍스트를 회전합니다.)
Spring boot how to write a specific get i can only describe with an example(스프링 부트 특정 get을 작성하는 방법은 예제로만 설명할 수 있습니다.)
Get absolute position of all shapes in XWPFDocumentGiven a XWPFDocument, how does one extract absolute coordinates of all shapes contained within that document?(XWPFDocument에서 모든 모양의 절대 위치 가져오기XWPFDocument가 주어지면 해당 문서에 포함된 모든 모양의 절대 좌표를 어떻게 추출합니까?)
Element not interactable exception is thrown even after Expected Conditions.(예상 조건 이후에도 상호 작용할 수 없는 요소 예외가 발생합니다.)
maven Failed to collect dependencies spark commons-codeSeeing maven build errors but I don't see commons-codec:jar:1.15 in jests3t as a dependency.(maven 종속성을 수집하지 못했습니다. spark commons-codeSeeing maven 빌드 오류이지만 jests3t에서 commons-codec:jar:1.15가 종속성으로 표시되지 않습니다.)
Spring Boot jar file reuseable (local maven repository)(재사용 가능한 Spring Boot jar 파일(로컬 maven 저장소))
Why is this Worker being triggered twice on first trigger?(이 작업자가 첫 번째 트리거에서 두 번 트리거되는 이유는 무엇입니까?)
In playstore, showing open button the first time.(Playstore에서 처음으로 열기 버튼을 표시합니다.)
Java JSoup get every image from page(Java JSoup은 페이지에서 모든 이미지를 가져옵니다.)
Dealing with incorrect correlation ID in Camel via WMQ(WMQ를 통해 Camel에서 잘못된 상관 ID 처리)
Reference - What does this regex mean?(참조 - 이 정규식은 무엇을 의미합니까?)
Why is my validation function not working(유효성 검사 기능이 작동하지 않는 이유)
Why am I getting a NoClassDefFoundError in Java?(Java에서 NoClassDefFoundError가 발생하는 이유는 무엇입니까?)
Spring boot oauth2 response with redirect url as underlying service instead of proxy (Gateway)(프록시 대신 기본 서비스로 리디렉션 URL을 사용하는 스프링 부트 oauth2 응답(게이트웨이))
receive Message not retrieving requested message Attributes(수신 메시지가 요청한 메시지를 검색하지 않음 속성)
Not adhering to All files access permission policy I am using Room database with external storage db.(모든 파일 액세스 권한 정책을 준수하지 않습니다. 외부 저장소 db와 함께 Room 데이터베이스를 사용하고 있습니다.)
zxing-android-embedded error message on every first app launch(모든 첫 번째 앱 실행 시 zxing-android-embedded 오류 메시지)
How Do I Assign a input to a variable?(변수에 입력을 어떻게 할당합니까?)
Java.util.zip.DataFormat Exception: incorrect header check First post, usually I find what I am looking for in other threads but not this time:(Java.util.zip.DataFormat 예외: 잘못된 헤더 확인 첫 번째 게시물, 일반적으로 다른 스레드에서 찾고 있는 것을 찾았지만 이번에는 찾지 못했습니다.)
Loading Queue implementation that loads entries if empty(비어 있는 경우 항목을 로드하는 로드 대기열 구현)
How can I raw post using Http URL Connection(Http URL 연결을 사용하여 원시 게시물을 작성하는 방법)
While loop doesn't exit after file download(파일 다운로드 후 루프가 종료되지 않음)
Compile File' and most other buttons are greyed out on NetBeans during java programming(Java 프로그래밍 중에 NetBeans에서 '파일 컴파일' 및 대부분의 다른 버튼이 회색으로 표시됨)
How to convert Ascii to Unicode in java?(Java에서 ASCII를 유니코드로 변환하는 방법은 무엇입니까?)
How do I add bearer token to a form data using retrofit to POST to a web API(웹 API에 대한 POST로의 개조를 사용하여 양식 데이터에 무기명 토큰을 어떻게 추가합니까?)
blueprint-maven-plugin JDK compatibility(blueprint-maven-plugin JDK 호환성) 
Basic Lookup Strategy using incorrect query I am using spring-acl for expression based, fine-grained access control.(잘못된 쿼리를 사용한 기본 조회 전략 표현식 기반의 세분화된 액세스 제어를 위해 spring-acl을 사용하고 있습니다.)
Are mappings subdirectories supported in wiremock?(wiremock에서 매핑 하위 디렉토리가 지원됩니까?)
why lombok doesnt create construct with args(lombok이 args로 구문을 생성하지 않는 이유)
Gradle bootrun complains Web server failed to start.(Gradle 부트런이 웹 서버 시작에 실패했다고 불평합니다.)
android swipe and avoid refreshing recycler view items(안드로이드 스와이프 및 리사이클러 보기 항목 새로 고침 방지)
Need Help converting JavaObject To Json in Generic Pattern(일반 패턴에서 JavaObject를 Json으로 변환하는 데 도움이 필요합니다.)
How can we implement initial capacity and load factor for Hash table in our code(코드에서 해시 테이블에 대한 초기 용량 및 로드 팩터를 구현하는 방법)
How to Sign Just a part of XML File - Java XMLSignature - But was well-up error(XML 파일의 일부만 서명하는 방법 - Java XMLSignature - 하지만 오류가 발생했습니다.)
Null Pointer Exception when using unProject in Libgdx(Libgdx에서 unProject를 사용할 때 Null 포인터 예외)
If i am converting a entity to a DTO where this conversion code should exist?(엔티티를 이 변환 코드가 있어야 하는 DTO로 변환하는 경우?)
How to use Text Input Layout in Android Studio(Android Studio에서 텍스트 입력 레이아웃을 사용하는 방법)
How to filter recyclerview items with speech to text(음성을 텍스트로 변환하여 재활용 보기 항목을 필터링하는 방법)
Auto-renderer runs perfectly fine from commandline but not from Java
how to get an input from user from telegram bot in java?
No Such Job Exception: No job configuration with the name [] was registered
Tomcat log4j.xml and log4j2.xml rolling logs configured to delete old
Non-Atomic Treatment of double and long
CaptainCasa WebSockets
How do I update MySQL database using a button's onclick event?(버튼의 onclick 이벤트를 사용하여 MySQL 데이터베이스를 어떻게 업데이트합니까?)
Map markers and geocoding problems Hey guys I'm currently trying to retrieve multiple documents from firebase get an address and geocode it and add a marker on each address.(지도 마커 및 지오코딩 문제 안녕하세요 여러분 저는 현재 Firebase에서 여러 문서를 검색하고 주소를 가져와 지오코딩하고 각 주소에 마커를 추가하려고 합니다.) 
Vaccination center example(multithreading)(예방접종센터 사례(멀티스레딩))
Convert Gradle Project To Maven (Mini2Dx)(Gradle 프로젝트를 Maven으로 변환(Mini2Dx))
JPA: How to not commit an Entity Transaction(JPA: 엔티티 트랜잭션을 커밋하지 않는 방법) 
Convert OffsetDateTime to LocalDateTime with correct offset in java 8
I am trying to create custom modal bottom sheet with line on the top, how can I achieve that?
Repl. it Console on Coloring strange characters I recently did a project in reply for java that can read a buffered image and print it out in the console. 
Type org.pitest.maven.PitMojo not present I am using java 1.7, maven 3.6.3, I have added the PIT plugin to do some mutation testing.
io.grpc.Status Runtime Exception: UNIMPLEMENTED: unknown service manipula.core2.core.proto.Centrifugo I have a hard time to compile the right way this proto file for JAVA since up to 2 days now,
Fetching data of a sub Object with hibernate 3 criteria and complex projections
Simple Date Format cannot parse the source formatted by itself  
Can I choose a certificate from Windows Key Store in Java application for mutal authentication?
RawDatagramSocket Dart similar implementation in Java Android
Android: How to programatically change the width of an Image View without resizing its image?
Null Pointer exception to a button in a Dialog -- Android -- JAVA
Why do I keep getting java.lang.reflect.InvocationTargetException [duplicate]
JavaFX: Display image in List View without breaking selection modelIssue
Java container cant connect to MYSQL container with docker-compose I was given a multy-steps task and im stuck 
java.rmi.ServerException: Remote Exception occurred in server thread (Class Not Found Exception)
vscode java: Add source folder ignored
Java regex to extract host name and domain name from a URL
How do I handle question marks or asterisks ('?' or '*') in JFileChooser save dialog?
lost the session data after redirecting to stripe 
Convolution produces a very dark image
How to persist a List<Object> I've got a construct like this and need to persist the List of Objects
Secret Key Spec AES Equivalency of Java Code for C# Create SecretKey instance using Base64 decoded value and AES algorithm. 
How to determine if a pdf annotation will be visible or not in PDFBox?
JavaFX Grid Pane Incorrect Node Bounds After Setting Column/Row When setting new row and column positions of a node contained in a GridPane, the bounds do not update until sometime later (My guess is that JavaFX calculates these at the end of the loop). I was wondering if there was a way to force these bounds to be re-calculated so that bounds 
How to delete file or directory from root directory of external storage (...removable sdcard root directory) 
Getting : Correct classpath for reactor.netty.resources.ConnectionProvider$Builder while running spring project Description:
Java Agent not running when packaged into jar file 
Alert Dialog button that doesn't close the pop-up until edit Text is filled
Spring boot SOAP web service throw custom exception with status code
How right to send Flux or Mono to template (Free maker)
Spring kstreams cannot get processor to work - The class '[B' is not in the trusted packages
java Http Exchange create a UR I redirect URL link I am trying to create a URI redirect link.
Sorting Algorithm Explanation Complexity and Type This is a sorting algorithm in Java.
How to check used AWS SDK version supported by a region or not?
Finding the point with the highest sum of values for three 2D arrays
How does SonarQube line coverage analysis work?
Retrieving Base64 encoded Image from Firebase and show it on Android App
How to not pull module (dependency) from settings.xml servers?
Force Vibration even when energy saver is on / vibration disabledIs there any way to force vibrations even when it is "semi-disabled" in the Settings?
WAVE file unexpected behaviour I am currently trying to make a .wav file that will play sos in morse.
Why do I get a SQL Exception even if I don't commit?
How to globally configure spring-ws / spring-boot-starter-web-services to serialize also empty (null) elements without modifying the serialized class?
spring data neo4j fail to update relationship entitySpring Data Neo4j Version: 4.2.23.RELEASE
Difference in declaring a variable with?
Character-encoding not preserved when dealing with Input Stream Reader even after using UTF8 
Making Google Direct Carrier Billing (DCB) the default payment method
How can I implement a number of attempts here I ask the user if he has a promo code, if there is I give him the opportunity to enter it, I want to make him have 3 attempts for correct entry.
Java AWT Graphics2D draw String method does not work with arabic text
how can I make jackson in a swagger context throw an exception instead of accepting an integer for a boolean field?
Java spring boot JPA DLL-auto: update selectively I’m using java spring boot jpa, connect to mysql.
how to create a combat method based in a text-based adventure in java?
Java Hibernate mapping exception The scenario is following: I'm implementing a shopping cart, where a Customer can choose products from a product catalog, using Hibernate.
Response Entity Api add custom error message in rest API 
Java - Converting to Lambda with a boolean to return I haven't used much of Lambda and I have the following method that I'd like to rewrite as Lambda, so it still maintains the functionality, but in a more compact way. The method gets a map out of a map by an id. Then looks for 2 conditions in the map to return true. My current issue is that I'm not finding a proper syntax to do a "return true;" statement from my Lambda. That was part #1. Part #2 question is about using nested maps. The nested map represent static data from a small csv file - under 100 rows. The inner map contains between 1 to 3 records. Is there a better way storing this in memory besides using a nested map? 
Replace certain words in a 2D array The method plant() takes a String and a 2D array of String[][] as its inputs. The strings within the array should not be replaced by the inputted word.
java.lang.NullPointerException while calling a bean readonly property
Calling old version Elastic Search exp :6.8.8 with a recent client Rest High Level Client 7.12.1 
How to add lombok logging to gradle project?
How to combine two attribute from a json to create json predicate with in clause in Java?
Websocket not receiving more than2 messages We have a Backend Java application which publishes Messages on a quartz job at intervals.
saving information that does not need to be registered Each line in the txt file stores information about a village.  
How can I test root array for related key value pairs with REST-Assured?
How do you handle the principal in microservice and REST API?
How to get Bearer Token from DOM structure in Network tab- Using Selenium?
why data is not inserting in db any thing wrong in code
Unable to use @Autowired in a unit test in a spring project I have a spring project in Java.
How can we upload a file in salesforce through the windows GUI file upload window (selenium automation)?
PSQL Exception: ERROR: null value in column "idRoom" of relation "Bed" violates not-null constraint i'm working using spring boot , and i'm trying to add beds to database(postgresql) but i'm facing this error
How to filter a group with a precondition?
How to run a scheduled task on a single openshift pod only?
dynamic object creation and function call 
Fisheye distortion while raycasting I've made a raycaster in java, and I'm getting the fisheye distortion that I've gotten before in javascript
Need help for creating use case diagram of Mandarin Square Capturing
Create an alertdialog which include a list How can I make a list on Alert Dialog which include some radiobuttons in that
Hallo , how can I convert a hex String to int. I have "F3A4" and i want to write a method or use Java_API to get the int. How code I do it please?
the line based file processing and scanner methods
How to get the index of this element in an Array?
How to get value by Java enum class name and field name
CdiUnit: Deployment Exception: WELD-001408: Unsatisfied dependencies for type Appeal Repository Api with qualifiers @Named  
How to retrieve the value of an element in an Array List if it is not null by using a for loop?
Minimum number of circles with radius r to cover n points
What is the efficient way to compare two large datasets using java
Custom Validator in Spring bootIs there a way to implement a custom validator for @Request Header and move the if-else  statement from controller?
org.springframework.ws.soap.client.Soap Fault Client Exception when using Spring WS WebService Template Faced the following problem: I have a wsdl file for communicating my service and CRM via SOAP. 
Short.MAX_VALUE +1 error: incompatible types: possible lossy conversion from int to short
JavaFX scaling does not resize the component in parent container
How to make a sync call with Mono/FluxI have this part of code
How to retrieve ongoing voice call codec in Android?
Spark read csv - multiple S3 paths in Java I am trying to read multiple s3 directories (each directory will have multiple files in it) using spark's read csv method however I get error as s3 path has some illegal character's.
how to extract all integers from an array of random characters and transfer them to the array, i do not know how to correctly write this code.
How to call a SigV4 authroized API Gateway from Java Lambda 
How to mix and sort different dataseries on Stacked Bar Chart in JavaFX How do I mix and sort the 4 dataseries I added to the chart?
Class not found even though it is clearly visible in Web App LibrariesSimilar question exists but none of the answers helped.
Java data storage in CSV I tried to writting my user input in java to csv file but i dont know how to my username and password in a cell 
Android: UsageStats returning 0 on get Total Time In Foreground() for certain apps
How to retrieve data from fire base for if else condition in java
Parallel multiplication of two square matrices
Calling Get method dynamically based on name of property
Retrieve last level directory name from path
What would be the best approach to overwrite multiple Selenium Jupiter configuration parameters?
Invalid argument: 'handle' must be a string error for Microsoft Edge and how to add "w3c: false" capability?
How to unit test methods that are using streams?
Spring Boot not starting after upgrade
Grouping phrases in a string in Java 
Integrating Camunda webapps in spring framework I setup Camunda in my Spring 3 project (Tomcat server) using this guide.
ERR_CONNECTION_TIMED_OUT using Selenium and Cucumber in Azure I am running a selenium cucumber application.
How can I set a Component focused whenever the JFrame is focused (e.g. by clicking or with Alt+Tab)?
Fragment is auto scrolling to somewhere else | android studioFragment is auto scrolling to bottom.
The use of a reference variable in this java code Why is the reference variable ‚Input inside‘ necessary?
How do I replace spaces with \n in java?
Is there any script for Automating Pop ups while downloading Files using Chrome Driver1. How to Download the files Multiple times using Chrome Driver in selenium...?
<attribute name="org.eclipse.jst.component.dependency" value="/WEB-INF/lib"/> is getting overriden in .classpath file when project imported
Spring Prototype scoped bean. Do I need to make fields in it as threadLocal?
apache poi disable default footer for the first page I am trying to create a word document in which I will have no footer only in the first page and a footer for the rest of the pages.
How to write a BST to a text file I'm trying to write a binary Search tree to a text file in sorted order, my write method is in my BST class.
Humble Video take snapshot of given time
Why does my MCreate Java Minecraft mod not compile?
Returning hashmap keys in order of value in Java?
Notification Big Java Android I would like to make an expandable notification display.
How do I cover all the edges of a graph with the minimum amount of nodes?
Unable to concat mp4 files using ffmpeg I am using ffmpeg to combine two mp4 files without including their audio;
Vaadin 14 Combobox error: "Server connection lost, trying to reconnect ..."In my application installed on a remote server (Integrator) there is a ComboBox that shows a list of 1334 items. When the user starts typing, the following error occurs: "Server connection lost, trying to reconnect ...". After some processing time, the list appears. How do I resolve this error message?
java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: 'void org.springframework.transaction.annotation.AnnotationTransactionAttributeSource.<init>(boolean)'
JButton not showing the Text in it This is my code I am Having Problem with the text in Jbutton, I'm new to Gui.
Failed to execute goal org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-javadoc-plugin Java 16 with pattern matching I was playing around with new Java 16 features and when I wanted to build a local maven install I get this error:
Removing whitespaces at the beginning of the string with Regex gives null Java I would like to get groups from a string that is loaded from txt file.
Multi-document Properties and profiles in spring boot 2.4.0 or greater version
How to write unit test for this log filter that uses wrappers
The operator < is undefined for the argument type(s) String, int ? 
Why does java allow for overriding methods with subclass return types but not subclass parameters?
How to return or get response value from Volley onResponse method?
Obfuscating specific packages in a fat jar (maven project) with yGuard I'm trying to create an obfuscated fat jar for my tool. 
cascade deletion problem with eclipse link I cannot make the cascade delete work (using EclipseLink, JPA), when I delete a user, its passwords are not deleted. An exception is throwed warining me of a foreign key constraint violation.
How to get Path variable in spring filter or java
Spring boot WebSocket Stomp Client not receiving messages
Android - File Not found exception permission denied for copied files
Caused by: java.lang.UnsupportedClassVersionError in the gradle intellij plug-in I try to create IntelliJ plug-in build on Gradle.
403 Forbidden Error - Java , java.net.HttpURLConnection not working on aws-ec2 machine but works fine in local workstationtried with USER-AGENT property and also added all the headers as below to establish connection to a SSL url. 403 error code return back in server but working fine in local workstation.
How to exit from Flutter after calling flutter activity from android?
Eclipse Java - Application Event
Multiple overlapping squares in Java How can we make multiple overlapping squares (of different lengths) with the same top left corner using a single method in Java?
Java: interrupt accept method without close the server socket
How to access Variable or function from one to other class java?
Jackson version conflict with open api code generation
MediaPlayer shows wrong durations for some MP3 files I'm developing an app that plays every verse of the Quran. 
How is it possible to fix this error in this circular linked list?
Java spark using expr from column value
Replacing an image once through timer
Request processing failed; nested exception is java.lang.IllegalStateExceptionRequest processing failed; nested exception is java.lang.IllegalStateException: No primary or single public constructor found for interface javax.enterprise.inject.Model - and no default constructor found either
Merge Kafka record Values from single stream I have a topic which receives JSON records with possible partial data.
Working of this non-static method (being supposedly called without an object?)
How do I define and initialize a variable that generates random integers from 2 to 20 inclusive?
Shared Element Transition with Material Motion?
Create a random UUID and use it in two different Java methods
How to enforce child class behavior/methods when the return types of these methods depends on the child class?
creating a runnable JAR file _ missing VM arguments _ only runs with the IDE
Gson streaming api not reading the whole document
How to retrieve local object value using powermockito
How to use this library it has only .java files in it
Is it possible to disable eureka client level cache?
Illegal Argument Exception in Java live speech recognizer using CMU Sphinx I have write the following java code in Intellij IDE.
Method tab Layout.setup With View Pager(viewPager) crashes app I recently update my code from android to andoidx.
Tomcat does use driver configured on context.xmlI give support to a legacy Java Web Application(Struts + Jsp) that runs in a Tomcat 9.0.10.
I try all solution but it does not work.
Database for Android
Multiple Spinner in a Recyclerview item I have a recycler view with 11-row data items.
How to display 0.05 as 0.0, 0.05 and 0.050 How to display 0.05 as 0.0, 0.05 and 0.050?
Spring Webflux Websocket session management I've been trying to do a reactive Websocket using Spring Webflux. 
sorting list of files by size is taking too much timesorting list of folders is working well but it's take too much time and makes the phone freezes until the method finish.
WebTest Client returning IllegalStateException: block()/blockFirst()/blockLast() are blocking, which is not supported in threadThe following function:
Method tab Layout.setup With ViewPager(viewPager) causes app crashes Recently I changed from andoroid to androidx.
Dependency management not working with multi level inheritance
How to write unit test for a WebFilter that is writing a Reactor Context? Specifically, what and how do I mock?
find Fragment By Tag() returns null on existing fragment Tag I have an Activity with a Fragment Container that will show only one of two Fragments.
kafka streams example throws a class cast exception, serde windowed -> string. How to set the proper Serde?
how to get specific image url from google in java I want to get the image address of first result from google and save into excel sheet.
Spring JPA : Validation failed for query for method public abstract method
Data structures: map, Collectors, grouping By Can somebody help with Map, Collectors and grouping By?
Set a Default Value for a dropdown in ADF
Apply Try with Resources correctly in Java 7?
Print out seasons and three pointers side by side not one below the other in Java with Selenium. How can i do that?
Hibernate: Limit result size of child objects I've got a parent entity which has many child objects, most of which are collections.
Problem migrating from Aspect J to Byte Buddy Plugin
How to create a new, unique RMI registry on some free port?
Elastic Search created documents cannot be viewed in the index i'm using liferay 7.3.5 und try to creat an elastic Search.
Programmatically change color of shape in Clip Drawable I have a layer list to implement custom progressbar in my application. 
can I deploy maven project in a non-maven server?
JavaFX Check Box Table Cell refuses to bind to value
allow user to edit student info from a binary file in Java I am working on a school project.
Is it possible to create array of suppliers in Java? 
Can there be an optimised approach to this question?
Tomcat charset encoding wrongI transferred .war package from my local windows system to the Linux server. 
How to evaluate if a date field is filled or empty in a form correctly?
Saving "String[][] gameState=new String[10][10] " into sql I am working on spring boot project TICTACTOE game where I have to save Game state, and I have used a 2d string array its was working fine because I m was using the h2 database, But now I have to shift from the h2 database to MySQL but nowhere a problem occurs when creating table.
How do I use BigDecimal to increase the accuracy of this method?
Get columns of a two-dimensional array and place them in a one-dimensional?
Is there a way to fix the styling for my custom themed buttons?
Cucumber and masterthought plugin - how to modify the scenario.write default title
How to write data correctly in Local Storage through selenium, based on another local storage?
When to use private interface methods over private static methods?
J label not updating when setText is called While building a simple currency converter app set Text is not setting the value in JLabel.
Spring application java.lang.Unsatisfied Link Error on Netbeans run
Android in-app update keeps asking to update
building a binary tree from its preOrder and inOrder in java
What is the data type of the on Click Listener Obj field in the below code?
how to run a java file from a parent directory?
How to (de)serialize immutable object with custom name for list name?
i am receiving error: type Stack does not take parameters and my code is right what will i do
Connecting to firestore from spring boot application throws a null pointer exception
Set Output Stream of specific J Shell
nutch-1.18 error java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: org/apache/nutch/storage/WebPage$Field
Increment floating point numbers with the precision of the input with Java
Mouse Pressed / Mouse Released events for user resizing (dragging) J Dialog border
How to hide title when not scrolled in coordinator layout I was using Coordinator Layout.
r2dbc validate if id exists and then insert row
Alpha animation works, then does not work
Java spring / spring boot Application : Web logic to Tomcat conversion
Can Eclipse render Java curly braces without changing underlying code?
Issue when rendering fonts with libGDX at small (<0.5) scalesI have created a Bitmap Font for my libGDX game and want to render it in front of the player (in a constant position in space, i.e. like a sign and not like a HUD). Sadly the rendering behaves weird at small scales, so much that the text becomes unreadable. What's going on and is there any way to prevent this?
JavaFX: Exception in thread "JavaFX Application Thread" java.lang.NullPointerException: Cannot invoke "com.sun.prism.GraphicsPipeline.is3DSupported()"I am programming a JavaFX Application which shows an undecorated stage.
What is the purpose behind these three very similar methods of a LinkedList? 
Frequency of a string in an arraylist of strings in java
Is Jetty org.eclipse.jetty.client.HttpClient thread safe in version 11
Graphics 2D not drawing images in Java I'm following a Java course, and the current idea is to draw an image using Java Graphics 2D.
CompletableFuture on ParallelStream gets batched and runs slower than sequential stream?
Get screenshots of Specific windows not whole screen
Why I am getting this error in my java program of file input/output?
ThreadLocal get() returning null sometimes after spring boot upgrade from 2.1.4 to 3.4.3
I don't have the access to my server Tomcat 9 externally
How to add subcategories to given categories in the spinner?
Best method of converting hex string to rgba integers (Color)? Which method for getting rgba int values from a hex string is preferable?
Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform
Meaning of different timeouts in SSHJ I am trying to use SSHJ to connect to a SFTP from my Java application.
Android reuse attributes inside <declare-styleabe> with different names
how can pass getattrbute value in other input box in selenium?
Enums VS Objects I am creating a "mock-dictionary" using a Hash
Not able to access the driver Globally The below code I was running and I have declared my webdriver globally but it is continuously displaying the null pointer error i.e the driver is not accessible to the other method in the same class.
How to compare Mono error to a String in Java
SAST Issue - Improper Resource Access Authorization I am using Checkmarx security tool to scan my code.
Java - Populating List by Building Different Types of Objects with Data from File
Looping a collection with generics in java
Runnable callbacks not repeating
Cannot return html when using post method in spring boot
Problem override handle Method Argument Not Valid from Response Entity Exception Handler
Need to access the simple list in Thymleafcontroller
Request Context contains older authorization token I added the Container Request Context in my exception mapper.
Log4j2 not logging when starting spring as linux service
Wrong mapping, can not find mistake
App.java is not on the classpath of project ss_d36b3017, it will not be compiled to a .class fileJava(32) I am constantly facing this error and I have no idea how to fix it.
How to fix "ExceptionInInitializerError" with Selenium when trying to connect to Firefox in a nodejs project I have a nodejs project running in localhost, and i'm trying to make some tests with Selenium 3.141 in Java project.
Is there any option in order to get more than 10 twitter trending topics with twitter 4j?
How many objects Java Virtual Machine creates?
How to Use Scanner close in this Prorgram?
How to Crop Image from outside Intent TLDR
How can I solve the inability to achieve fragment jump through onclick?
How to make sort and search methods interact with a Mysql database in Java
How to check if a coordinate is adjacent to another?
What is Double Brace initialization in Java? What is Double Brace initialization syntax ({{ ... }}) in Java?
Eclipse: Gradle source folder migration breaks J Unit test resources
VSCode Java Debugger throwing error 'org.eclipse.jdi.internal.connect.ConnectImpl$String Argument Impl.
How to configure swagger with Jetty 11 running with jakarta EE 9 namespace?
IntelliJ Resolution Exception on Java modules - contains package/exports package
Adding message pattern to log payload Do you know how I could add the message pattern along with actual message in log4j?
Overlaping when using .setText() for some reason I have a Jlabel called status that is empty.
Convert the flat Java Object that was created from the DB read, into nested Json object
Set chunksize dynamically after fetching from db
Not able to read request body in HandlerInterceptor post Handle() method
Why does ldaptemplate(ldapcontextsource) use the base instead of the URLs provided for connection?
How to fix jittery movement (of a player which is a square)Currently, I'm coding this 2D game in Java.
Start j meter distributed testing from clouds
Updating value in MongoDB for value plus 1 I need to update a collection on MongoDB (terminal) and replace one of the elements of the collection by adding 1.5 to its value.
Springboot integration tests are failing when adding multiple service I have a spring boot application with one controller class, one Service and one repository working perfectly fine.
Can I force .xsd to make "java.time" field instead of "java.util.date"?
Spring Data MongoDB - Find millions of data with Pageable - Memory overload?
How to find, read and display a line from a text file with Java I have a text file entailing fake airplane records.
Using the following code The Nested else if statement, not printing please help what is the reason this code is not executed
How to see the contents of a text file while debugging (Netbeans) I'm familiar with Netbeans and the debugger.
Rx Java: process imperative task using reactive approach
Order in column a N number of number rows on a txt file with java
How to set n features of a spark Dataset using the Vector Assembler?
Persist Map <Integer, Integer> in androidI tried this weekend with different approaches to store data of a map <Integer, Integer> in android.
Intent Redirection from Google Playour Application has been rejected repeatedly in recent weak because of "intent redirection".
JSP for gives the same repetitive value in list retrieval
How to apply DynamoDB Bean annotations to a different project's POJOs by using generics?
How do I add text views to my images?
design problem with starting foreground service from other foreground service
How to change final HTML output using pdf2dom with Java?
How to get internet connection latency/ping?
Java: Unreported exception Exception; must be caught or declared to be thrown
Java simplifying a repetitive code snippet to a function within Action Listener I am wondering what is an elegant and effective way of simplifying the following snippet of code.
Itext7 throwing error when i trying to convert html to pdf
Javamail send sign email and add a file as attatchement I want to send email using javamail API.
Insert removed row into another xls file@AxelRichter had helped me how to delete row in WorkBook, but now i need to insert this removed row at another xls file.
When reading an encrypted file I get "No matching key found for the cipher text in the stream.
Jenkins pipeline with pure Java code producing compilation issues I have a Jenkins pipeline as shown below.
Android Studio error - groovy.lang.MissingMethodException: No signature of method: build_8sqj**q9.android() is applicable for argument types: ***I prepared an android app in android studio then I copied my whole code manually from one sys to another. But after that, getting this error.
Project runs on Heroku but doesnt run locally
Is there anything wrong with reassigning a reactor Publisher Mono like this? Is there anything wrong with this?
JAXB Define XML elements with dots
How to call a class of instance variables through a method of another class
How to handle non-success responses with Keycloak's admin API?
Android Studio SQLite error that no column in database named name. Please Help I am stuck with this error
Working on Test Driven Development project (Virtual Pet Shelter in Java), but I can not get the Test to pass.
Method Calls from Child Class objects in arraylist of parent class Java
Text in J Label is displayed layered In a bigger project I need to display single words in a JLabe l filling the entire screen. 
Is there any solution to remove messages from redis stream 1 by 1 from backend & frontend while maxmemory reached
Dynamically Modify JNLP via Servlet and sending it to client
How to copy textfields to another page?
com.sun Http Context handler called multiple times I am trying to make a simple Http Server which serves dynamically created webpages. 
How to apply Indent to array json in java
Call DB Function on Java Entity I've try using @Formula but the result is null in the db. So my question is how we can use some function in the @PrePersist or @Formula?
Spring OAuth2 : how to configure column size?
Java thread-dump: not all active threads are printed
Reading xml File with DOCTYPE SYSTEM ".dtd" error
Enteries in Maven Project POM with <systemPath> tag does not get included in the generated war file WEB-INF\lib folder
How to create an instance of a Java class in Processing?
How to return ID of Db saved JSON in Spring I am building a sample app for JSON tutorial.
Java Scanner Asks For The Input Twice
Aspect J weaver gives me "incompatible return type applying to constructor-execution" when using @Around advice for constructor
Validate a SSL certificate using apache Http client tool I'm using java and  Apache Http client to access a Public Rest API.
Not understanding Biginteger prime constructor arguments I am writing some kotlin, and would like to use the Prime constructor for BigIntegers.
How can I pass data via a Word document from a Java-Server to a JS Add-In?
spring batch: conditions in processing
swapping elements in matrices a and b above main diagona
Why ResponseEntity<T> is generic?
Error 500 when use axios call service on Linux enviroment but working on local on Windows
J Table isn't updating when adding to Array list?
Error: Could not find or load main class org.codehaus.groovy.tools.GroovyStarter (groovy-3.0.7)
Android Studio - Layout Elements differ in size on the physical device, compared to the preview and emulator I'm relativly new to android.
Unable to connect Kafka producer written in Java to remote cluster nodeKafka Producer written in Spring boot with defined properties as
Do I need to check the null for optional object itself before use?
Need help: AppCenter Test Run Encountering java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: path must exist: src/main/java/features
I'm having problem with More than one file was found with OS independent path 'META-INF/NOTICE.mdbuild.gradle(:app)
How do I do a HEAD operation on an AWS Presigned URL?
Getting a Sum to print out from a user defined array summed recursively
Exception in thread "main" core.ops.SignatureUnificationException: could not find a class named: ClassName. cannot find a nonmain class
Java - (273 IBM) charset returns \n when decoding 21
How to handle multiple radio button using MVVM (Android) How to add multiple radio buttons and get the value of that radio button?
Value type org.json.JSON Object cannot be converted to JSON Array Not sure where I make a mistake.
knapsack problem with dp getting my answer wrongimport java.io.*;
Difference between connecting to a database using Driver Manager and SpringBoot(Hibernate)
Kotlin refresh imageview Tornado FX
How can this linked list reversal with recursion work?
Daily Notification in Android not workingI wanted my Application to send notification everyday to the user, following this link and doing everything as described.
Insert line break in docx4j with variable replacement
Can we inject properties of a class with certain pre-define values in spring using autowire?
maven sure fire plugin is not picking class from dependent project
PDF corruption sending it by Email in Java
Cannot properly link C++ project with Gradle (exception during working with external system)
I cannot get sum of the firebase data values in android studio I am making an android app using android studio.
Why are my duplicate entries not filtered out with HashSet, but with TreeSet they are?
Kotlin: How to map a field from list to a new list and group it
JSTL path variable not working with foreign key
how to call java function from jsp being called by ajax in javascript
Java webclient client response memory issue
PKIX path building failed in OAuth Authentication in Java
Schedule Spring Batch Job based on Event Trigger
How can I throw an exception within an execution of a reactive pipeline that contains the stack trace of the creator of the reactive pipeline?
What's wrong with this Java decorator generic class?
Use Hibernate Registered Function in Formula Field
Docking an undecorated Stage in Windows 10 In Windows 10, you have got the possibility to dock a window by dragging it to the border of your Screen.
How can I remove the child node name from the metrics sent to Cloud watch?
Spring Boot @Schedular not running after first execution
How much performance does passing a canvas cost?
Recover a message from http Eception Code
OptaPlanner Custom Employee Rostering - Issues with Weekly Hours Limit in the Constraint Provider
Trouble using Path Matching Resource Pattern Resolver to get src/main/resources in WAR file
Using lambda comparator with long return type
Connected Pixels Using Recursion- endpoints, junctionsi need to find junctions, endpoints and longer lines.
I received below error when converting JSON object having property of json array to a java object
WSDL parsing causes outboudn internet connection to w3.org on weblogic 12the problem
Shutdown Hook is not being called uppon pressing Ctrl+C if programm was started via gradle
Android Studio Java passing data through intents
Java generic collection to set This has been confusing be quite a bit! Sorry if the explanation is bad.
Processing Python Mode jar not found
Problem in download Imageuri in Firebase Storage Android
What's wrong with my program, I keep getting error "arrow.java:42: error: cannot find symbol"
Warning: Do not place Android context classes in static fields; this is a memory leak (and also breaks Instant Run)Android Studio
sessionFactory.get Current Session() update was not update my oracle table in java hql
Why do I have this error when trying to switch scenes in JavaFX using ScenBuilder?
Spring AOP @Pointcut and @Before yields Illegal Argument Exception: error at ::0 formal unbound in pointcutI am doing a springboot project that includes login and accounts. 
JACoCo/surefire-plugin does not find tests to run All my tests are located in src/test/java/... with java marked as a test source folder.
Content Resolver is null when called by second Application
Java: Counting Char Occurance in a Arraylist
LibGDX use java.util.stream.Stream in core folder?
Cannot create story in Intellij for j behave I am trying to create a project for BDD in which I am using Jbehave and Serenity. 
Calling a local variable in a class from another class
Invalid Query. 'in' filters support a maximum of 10 elements in the value array
Single quotation marks as arguments to a Java program
2 Dimensional Linked List
How to navigate to a different page depending on who is logged in
How to differentiate a parent class which is casted into different child class objects?
Complex loop For - Trying sequence lines
Merging two foreign key columns into Embedded ID I have two tables (Product and Supermarket).
Deleting File/Directory and Recreating Before Download Manager Makes File/Directory Appear Non-ExistentI am downloading font files from a direct download link and saving it to my device.
Why do i have an error when trying to start apache drill in embedded mode?
How to use Google Drive API using AWS Lambda with Java(Springboot)
Read list of type parameter values using Scanner.next X that matches the type parameter
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException: Index: 8, Size: 0 at java.util.ArrayList.rangeCheckForAdd(ArrayList.java:665)
JERSEY Project Maven Configuration Problem with pom.xml
JPA : Re-use Id generated from a sequence for a new version of the same object having composite PK (ID + VERSION)
Change default input and output streams in Java
Icon on the Label makes the program not running
Is there a way to emit the event from SSE Spring user wise Java?
How to solve Java "Nested Loops" problem?
Progress Bar Styling on Mac
How does injecting of EntityManager in Spring bean work?
Minecraft Forge modification not working on dedicated server for non-OP playerstoday
How to solve Redis Connection Failure Exception?
How to remove space between numbers and avoid if there is non-numeric value before number?
Parallel counting - JavaI do not have a background in CS.
Why is on Create(Bundle savedInstanceState) not accessing the on Save Instance State() Bundle?
Image J plugins with dependencies or uberjar assembly are not available in FiJi plugins
How to turn off Gdx.gl.gl Clear in android?
how to query by date and aggregate mongodb java driver
Java 3d - Pick Translate Behavior - object is not moving i made an Sphere Object in Java
Why am I getting error creating object in Minio?
Cannot be resolved to a variable in Java 
Why does Java expose Error and Java SE API callback methods accept Throwable instead of Exception?
Why is JGit Push always returning "auth falied"
XSL Style sheet Path with Quartz Job I have an action that turns XML data into an XSL based report that is viewed on a web page.
Elastic search java api correct way of query building
In PHP we have santize to ensure String is safe. What is the similar thing for Java
trying to convert a String like 2/1/2021 0:09(i am getting this string from csv file) to Local Date Time
Spring Boot Override Wildcard Request Mapping I am building a URL Shorter app (like Bitly).
Retry tests that failed in @BeforeMethod using testng
Change value of specific annotated fields of an object which is used as a type for multiple fields in some object - Jackson Object Mapper Serialize
what can i use instead of hbaseTemplate.find(TableName,Scan,ROwMapper)?
java.lang.Exeption In Initializer Error: null after trying to register a custom model block
EDIT TEXT Android : Need to control the cursor position (prevent or allow)
How can I check email address in java
How to show a buffered image or float Array Image in Image
Separate a for loop into multithreaded - Java
Web View doesnt appear when compiling for API 29I developed a JAVA app for Android 9 (API 28). 
Deserialization of xml based on object type jackson
Example input for AWS CDK load Nested Stacks
How to save book marks in documents with a variable font size?
How to insert a table inside Word's column?
Where is the location of the dependency?
Is it possible to use the kafka-console-producer to send messages via a transactional client?
How to Write Backspace code for textfield in java application?
Automation of desktop using winium Javahow to close tab automatically if there are more than 5 tabs open.
How to handling bad request in REST service
How to use JaVers with Map?
How to enable and disable a button when entering and exiting a geofence
video streaming on Fragment of an android appi want to stream a video from the firebase storage, in a fragment of my android app.
Required to calculate the number of minutes as an int, then the seconds as a double.
Rabbit MQ: Is it possible to have multiple channels associated with the same queue?
Android Studio App works on real device, but not on virtual device emulator?
Solr returns multiple (incorrect) values instead of one correct one
How to exclude modules in JBPM 7.48I am using Jbpm 7.48 for some buisness process implementation.
Out Of Memory Error when downloading large files with JDK Http Client
Read Excel sheet, store a column data in an array, iterate through each value in array and compare it with data on web portal
Spring MVC @ModelAttribute seems to behave asynchronously (using jpa) and need it to be synchronous
Failed to deploy application at context pathant
Isolating fat jar dependencies in a classloader What's the best way to isolate dependencies from a loaded fat jar from the application that loads it?
Getting "Can't open the specified file: ......xlsx " while trying to access a file through java
how to solve tables metadatalock in realtime database application
Convert Mono to CompletableFuture Java Reactive
Managing resource in Java multithreading
Question about strange behavior of Atomic boolean while concurrent access is done
Failed convert value of type 'java.lang.String' to required type 'java.lang.Long' nested excep java.lang.NumberFormatException For input string "null"I have this error and not sure what what else to trouble shoot. I am just trying to have a user click an "rsvp" button and have it register to the database along with the user id that hit the button.
How to persistent headers or properties in came l route in multicast()?
Is something like Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration available in Java?
Closest number to average in array Java
How to import binance-java-api into an Android Studio project
Is it possible to control the player's actions in Minecraft using the fabric API?
Write unit test for getting stream response with rest template
system Design: service to request data for N users in M different data sources
How to set transparent icon background in JButton "unclickable" I created a J Button in java and I set a png logo icon to it.
Change OneToOne link into another entity with another id
I using BpNN to fit some data, but only get the results like the average
find the prime numbers between bounds using list method in Java
Call a servlet method from a jsp
Testing a method which calls another method
C3P0 Pool is Full than getting Checkout Timeout C3P0 Connection Pool is Full than getting SQL Checkout Timeout
How do i get the value of a certain child node in spinner when i select value from previous spinner?
How to force a JPanel size to size of Graphic?
Button inside Recycler View I have a problem with my android app.
Android Studio Emulator Cannot Launch: VT-X Not working although it is enabled
Jenkins unable to run the kill process command
`Error: Could not find or load main class meka.gui.guichooser.GUI Chooser`
How to force close a database connection in java before quit 
How to write a sql query which matches the listed strings with before and after spaces
android Bottom app bar is not taking full width even after setting width to match parent
how to solve a.io.InvalidClassException: org.ejml.data.DMatrixRMaj; local class incompatible: stream classdesc serialVersionUIDenter image description here
Eclipse projects no longer exporting runnable jar files
Image and J Button don't come out at the same time
Hide class name from Allure report I am trying to tune an allure report so that it looks perfect for my needs.
PdfBox - change font or font Name in pdf file?
How to get sender app detail while receiving file through intent in android
How do I make a variable to count the number of tiles through the program
Eclipse Kepler won't start - Java error message
Snake case in request body using JAX-RS I have an API REST service, developed using JAX-RS.
Get Name spaces from an XML file
convert a Workbook to a Resource
Animate (zoomin and zoomout) images draw on canvas
Java Swing `GridBagLayout` alignment issue
POST form data with Spring Rest Template
Image from Google Drive Android Studio API gets rotated
Failed to load Application Context Spring Boot
Tomcat is running in eclipe but can't access http://localhost:8080/ or can't run my webapp
Close the Websocket connection using STOMP
Soap Request XML. from WSDL Hi i am unable to generate soap request xml to use in soap client.
Can I pass a variable from my javascript to a jsp file?
Generic Postgre SQL Exception with Android Studio
Why does only the class with the static method have the error: "Add a private constructor to hide the implicit public one."?
test-failed.xml is not generated when executing test cases using build file
Primary key not returned correctly in sqlite database
how to add voice search in search view
Number shaping for Bengali and Marathi in ibm icu library
Java Eclipse accessing xml document
Filter joined table using Criteria Builder
High level method for java RMI client communication to multiple servers
i could not play sound file from project resourcesbuilding project fail i get error i use sound files from resources but i get the following error
SnakeYAML\Jackson objects lists in Java
Index of first distinct character between two strings using a recursive method
Run parallel test methods which are dependent with different parameter using Data Provider in TestNg
how spring native run without jvm
How does the difference in length between two for loops affect performance?
Executable jar with dependencies and dll dependency using maven
Run multiple curl commands sequentially using java
Regex to split coordinates string Java
Delete Cookie Spring Boot I'm passing some information at login inside a cookie, information which I need to remove at logout.
For java.sql.Date AND java.sql.timestamp, can both be converted to datetime in sql server?
Invoke Method from other Class on JSP
Java regex for pattern replace - special char and case change to whitespace
Having signle instance Http client apacheI would like to have a class that initializes and handles httpclient calls (https).
What type should I call Response Entity with?
How to find a value in a stack and put it on top using recursion? How could I use recursion to search for a value in a stack and put it on top?
Convert an ASCII numeric value into a character
In Android Studio How to make Validation for imageview?
Find Sum From String of Numbers
@On Connect is not working with namespace in spring boot and Netty server io
Saxon 10 HE - Do I need one namespace per Java Extension Class?
Flutter - Platform Exception: Cannot add a null child view to a View Group
Spring Scheduler with shed Lock stop triggering next calls after sometime
java.lang.Illegal State Exception: at android.os.Parcel.read Exception
android.widget.AbsListView$RecycleBin.getScrapView NullPointerException: Attempt to get length of null array
Configuring openCSV instead of Flat File Item Reader in spring batch step
Java swing best way to manage button enabled / disable states by criteria I have a swing application with many buttons.
How to implement Viewerfilter for a Combo Viewer? 
Android Search Bar Like Google Play Store
Read a specific line form file in Java
Javassist get underlying object I am using Javassist proxy and I want to get fields from the original objects.
On Sensor Changed stops collecting data randomly
GUI click button to display shape Java
Testing array length in j Unit5 I have this problem where I have to test if an array has a length of 3.
Why is matrix transformation different on different devices when applying matrix transformation on views in android?
@SubscribeMapping is not running
How to retrieve values from a node in firebase and display in a recycler view?
Java final static field is null at first usage
Java Fitnesse Slim flexible data generator that returns ID
Quick Union Algorithm in Java
Recursion on linkedlist : how to compare?
GC overhead limit exceeded while multiple threads trying to fetch data from database
Assume Role Result not returning anything
JAXB java class generation from schema: how to get a custom XML element name (keep class name)
Finding sum of subarrays using Java
Generate google wrapper class for proto definition (pulsar native protobuf)
Action Event in Override can't find J Frame I want the "Login" button to close the symbol frame and open a new J Frame.
Most efficient way to find two integers that sum up to target value with specific conditions
Does a static method synchronization delay creation of object of the class?
Jackson Ignores Parent Class properties sent via JSON
Constructor logic to throw Illegal Argument Exception
JavaFX Vertical Tabs with Horizontal Text
Spring Boot Request Header ValidationI am using Spring Boot 2.3.8 for creating rest services.
How to convert UTC to EST in Java
Inconsistent logfile size with SizeBasedTriggerPolicy in logback [duplicate]
Current method "evaluatePostfix" running but printing out false results (java) I have written my code that is a linked list using stacks. 
JPA good practices mapping table
Seek Tool - what can that be?
Rest calls fail when adding spring-boot-starter-data-elasticsearch
Android Studio; Bottom Navigation View = null despite reorganizing code
Is there a way to read the delimiter in Scanner class java?
can we optimize below code using generics
Search path property with AWS S3 Repository in Spring Cloud Config Server
ProGuard Maven not finding jar
Future Task get vs run, task never finishes I am learning Callables and decided to make a very simple program.
Casting Java functional interface I have a functional interface Test and an object (test) implemented it.
Should I use several streams o a single loop?
packaging program for win7 /32 / java8
How to initialize entities fields representing their datetime of insertion into database using JPA?
auto wired doesn't work in spring.factories Spring Factories Loader initialized bean
J Tabbed Pane not showing until I minimize the window
shared Preference arraylist getting index out of bound sexception in for loop in thread
How to Find Prime Number in Java?
Best way to observe concurrentmap in java
Using IKVM with Tomcat and intelle j I have converted a C# file into jar.
Start activity or full screen intent from background in android
Why can I not enter large values (e.x. n = 100000) in this program that calculates all prime numbers from 0 to n inclusive?
Default value for a particular value retrieved from Hibernate
Fruit extends Healthy Food which extends Food, yet neither Fruit nor Healthy
TLS Connection with no Keystore
Android - on Request Permissions Result() is deprecated. Are there any alternatives?
VS Code Java Debugger Making a Lot of Untracked Files
sensor types in android studio
Can't run uiautomator viewer
Is it possible to pass arithmetic operators to a method in java?
JNI system loadlibrary I am developing an app on Android using JNI.
Java/Libgdx Shadow Cast Rendering After following a tutorial
Javafx: Bind Image View to Anchorpane or VBox and scale the ImageView by resizing the scene
How do I code my own SMTP Server using Java?
Obtain the ancestor node based on the text of a node
No converter found capable of converting from type [java.math.BigInteger] to type [org.club.entities.Depense]
Java Stdin and Stdout II why is it necessary to give scan.nextLine() 
How to set value for Property Getter Sub Classer map Object in ATGIn ATG Property Getter Sub Classer concepts
Managing Application connections with couchbase secondary cluster, during complete failover of primary cluster
How to expose data to watch face manually triggered I'm new to Android Wear OS.
Text View click listener not being called
Hashmap concurrency issues 
Hibernate JPA Integration Test issue ISSUE
Payara Micro ignoring connection url in persistence.xml
Problem connect Android Studio-MySQL using JDBC
reading folder directory content on android java processing
Andorid studio add a C++ function and library I am trying to add a C++ using android ndk. 
How to add spacing between JPanel and J Frame's content Pane?
How to setup HTTPS with jetty embedded 8.1.16.v20140903
Iterating through array throws Null Pointer Exception Sorry if the question sound stupid.
finding the number of occurence of a substring in a string
Creating mp4 file doesn't remove tmp files 
Passing Filepath to second activity in andriod studio
Tensorflow Lite Android Object Detection
Changing the endpoint displayed in browser for Spring Security I am using Spring Security in my Spring Boot application. 
How to find out what kind of dependencies I can use from local repository in maven?
Assigning 2 string values into one variable in Java
How to add images on J Frame?
My input here need to be not case-sensitive. I'll show you my code please help, I have zero idea how to do it
Use Kafka Prod metrics such that metrics are calculated for a window of time
Read out nested JSON Object with Java.
What is my error in making method to call an array?
How to prevent page reload after JavaScript function is executed?
How do I import this API Java?
Open Api Generator: Use Long as Numeric default?
How to get the data stored inside the hashmap from another class
Eclipse IDE Java compiling issues I am new to use Eclipse IDE for Java coding.
Auto wired abstract Configuration with Configuration Properties
File's status is set to CHECKED without calling isInvalid method in java
Is session pool of the cloud spanner library for Java FIFO?
Read Emails from Outlook 365 using Java I am trying to read emails from outlook 365.
How best to utilize a junit test for classes that expect ThrreadLocal variables to have been setup?
Mockito: @InjectMocks (OK) vs constructor of mocked objects (NPE)
Tomcat 9 class loading issue with Jaxb-impl& jaxb-runtimeJaxb-api and jaxb-runtime has the same package with the same class name called
How to get a link in a structure of multiple <div id> and <div class> elements in java
How can I count with index Of in Java?
com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.exc.MismatchedInputException: Cannot deserialize instance of `double` out of START_OBJECT token
DB2 connection issue while upgrading to Java 11
Url link handling I started working on my first java servlet project.
Java - Iterate through a Result Set till find the correct file
Java: Get all possible matches of RegExp / top-level backtracking
Parse json in javascript 
Nested JSON response from SQL View I have a SQL view (IdView) and it is having below values. 
afterTextChanged() event callback of TextWatcher gets invoked even when the user does not tap on the EditText field [duplicate]
Is Loader Manager class in Android deprecated for API 30?
Hyperledge gateway v2 failure - gRPC Failure: UNIMPLEMENTED
Scanner next Int() vs next Line() reading from console .... why can I use next Int() without next Line()?
Jython registering class with kryonet I want to register a python/jython class with kryonet.
Spring boot build I have a system built over Spring boot framework which runs two services, as shown
Can someone help me to solve 'org.openqa.selenium.StaleElementReferenceException:' in my case?
Why am I not able to access a child method in from an parent object in Java?
Theme is not set by pressing Switch.
Change date picker theme android java
Unit test DAO classes with JUnit using a Connection Pool
using query in android studio for retrieving data from fire base
Hello ,my app crashes every time
File.delete() is failing I'm trying to delete some files with .delete() method, but the method seems to be not working.
Get a fields maximum length
Setter in Recycler View Adapter not working?
How do I collect all the οbjects created from abstract class in a array list How do I collect all the οbjects created from abstract class in a array list?
B module can't depend A module's dependency that declare provided scope in IDEA multi-module maven project?
Using Gstreamer for Android with JNA & gst1-java-core?
implementing One To Many and One To One usage for an order with multiple line items Java 1.8
apache ignite local cache events not sent to java listener class
How to Destroy Ads Every X Minute in Java?
How to use "if else" or "case when" in JPQL
How to pass enum in Sprinboot backend using api call?
How to rate limit our application to call only particular number of requests in Spring Boot?
Ubuntu tells me my init.d Service of spring boot application not found and can not to run it
How to serialize a Date as LocalDate in Jackson?
Letter case permutation without using BFS/DFS approach
how to remove specific element from stack?
Embedding Executable (.exe) files into php
Java List<V_prod_monitor> SQL delivers List<Object> as result?
Jenkin build Unsatisfied Dependency Exception: Error creating bean with name I'm working on a project which is based on Spring Boot ( 2.3.8 ). 
Selenium Java not persisting final modifications with --headless option
I want to convert HTML to pdf using Itext.
app:compile Debug Java With Java c error in vscode using react-native
Async update child brings deleted parent back
Processing image with Tensorflow failing when using java on Android
The constructor Candidate(String, int[]) is undefined error I have this code typed up but for some reason 
How do nested loop communicate with each other? 
Is there a way to get the headers from Github csv raw data in java?
Decrement by a certain amount on java
Is there any way to check password hash sync status in Java code?
Updating Jackson to 2.10 breaks Jetty 9.
Proguard method optimization
How to send a SOAP response of Client to Requested party
Spring doesn't work with cucumber @ScenarioScope (IllegalStateException: No Scope registered for scope name 'cucumber-glue')
Checking divisor checking in Array using streams
CI/CD Junit tests: should I build the package first or I can run the test firsts?
Spring MVC Restful Multipart Form Not Working I've created a Restful service with Spring MVC as shown below.
How to ignore 'duplicate entry' exceptions with spring-data/jpa
How can I add two images inside the print area?
Content Provider returning null as result in other app
How to add a element to the end of a array?
Disable error message: Access Denied Exception: Access is denied
Feature toggle overriding in header
Thread-safe locking/sychronizing to one permit per resource with multiple resources
How do I determine the correct path for FXML files, CSS files, Images, and other resources needed by my JavaFX Application?
Cannot invoke "java.sql.Connection.prepare Statement(String)" because "db Connection" is null (Mysql connection)
Combining methods to TAR + LZ4 in a single run in Java
J Table and J Scroll Pane not shown as they should
JHipster OpenAPI Model Package
Populating column dynamically from key value pair I am working with an xslt file for styling.
Add Form X object content from resources to content stream using PDF Box?
I wanted to create a gif but got an error
How to use dynamic programming for a backtracking problem
Preventing fetching the same file from FTP server using multiple FTP clients in Java
Push resource file to maven repository using Maven Publication plugin
Elastic script update with Java code in it
Get Enum constant by value I want to create a method, which returns enum constants by it's value.
Deadlock in Java AWT's event queue As far as I know AWT is considered thread-safe.
How to delete child from a node in Firebase in Android?
Clojure float is not being recognized
Can someone enlighten me on where there needs to be a parenthesis?
Dynamic Programmatically Topic Name / Quarkus Smallrye Reactive Messaging Kafka
No suitable driver found when exporting to a JAR-file?
Why `Regex` has different behavior in src/test and src/androidTest?
What's the best way to concatenate Stream instances in Java
Loading external resource Bundle from dependency
Show multiple way point with coloured marker with sequence number on it on mapbox navigation view android app
Explain step by step how does Collections sort function in my code
Spring boot custom properties for junit test
Why do rs.get String and getInt not give me any value when i use them with setters
Adding next json data in json array using button click in recycler view explaination
Regex pattern to split string
Feign encoder/decoder for Google Protocol Buffers I am using Feign as a HTTP client.
methods with state Groovy / Java I have a bit of a long winded question. 
How to create a Object by clicking on a button (with diffrent names)
Spring MVC validation form attribute name problem
how to have gson expect an array of arrays of objects?
Change Imagen View´s image of custom control in Java FX
Put associated classes in separate source files I have two classes, User and Wallet.
Table Print pdf size issue i'm trying to print a table to pdf but it does not fit to page size.
How to run unit tests only for a class in a Hybris project through Command line?
How to extract zip archive with sub directories using SAF / Document File?
Superclass overriding Subclass with default values from constructor in Java
return the number of times is state of bulb changed?
Hibernate One to Many relation- Child table not updating Here I am adding a list of new orders to a specific user. 
Capture duplicates from array without using any inbuilt functions
Unable to create an instance of View Model
Where i can find a jar of play service ads?
How to get image format from a image file which is saved as a jpg file but don't know exactly what type it is
Java multithreading purpose of synchronized keyword From the book Java in Nut shell 6th edition one can read
Converting a C++ threading program to a Java threading program
java: class Profile is public, should be declared in a file named Profile.java error for unstructured data model and pojo
How to use a Double Dispatch with compare To in JAVA?
using idea to compile spring source code with 5.2.7-RELEASE can not find log4j and slf4j packages
How to take Time Input in a line in Java?
Track of consumed messages in Spark structured streaming
Docker - Run Wildfly standalone
Executing a terminal command from Java without any change
Return a variable from inside a lambda
how to add new line in java How do you add a new line in java.
Does consumer of web service needs to change if the webservice is migrated to https from http?
Pass list of data (object) between activites in Andriod
If the String has number inside then square the number and return as a String. 
java.lang.Illegal Argument Exception Parameter value
There are "x" numbers of files (**.txt) that contain two specific characters, how can I select them?
Is there a way I can set specific subclasses to have specific values relative to a variable in the parent class?
ERROR [org.hibernate.util.JDBCExceptionReporter] - <Communications link failure Docker + Spring + MysqlI am new to docker and when I run my docker-compose file I got this error: ERROR [org.hibernate.util.JDBCExceptionReporter] - <Communications link failure. Somehow my app cannot connect to the database.
How can I get invocations per method from a Mockito mock?
Does Intell i J support remote deployment to Websphere Liberty?
Data is not stored in file in JAVA I was trying to store Name and CGPA of student in a file, but it store only name can somebody help me?
Is there a way to update Server about the SSL Hand shake exception from client?
Restricting values in parameters via annotations Kotlin
I can't truncate a number to be compared
Initialize Java Components in HTML How do I create/initialize a Java variable in HTML?
Java has hicorp vault import self signed certificate
Java Object Array - Create a method with empty parameter, returns object array of class Book?
Is try-with-resource not safe when declaring multiple effectively final resources?
Spring Security encrypted password problem
Android ExoPlayer crashes on unstable networkIn our project we use Android exoPLayer version 2.
Is there any NOT operator in Regex
JAVA Store Program isn't outputting the correct numbers I was creating a Java program for my OOP class.
Shuffle an array multiple times in Java
@PostFilter on Optional I would like to use @PostFilter on method returning Optional.
How do I get/create a hyperlink in only part of a cell?
Beacon and Eddystone detection issue
IDK why my code keeps crashing taking the input only one time in this loop
Google oauth client exception on wildfly I tried to integrate google calendar API with my project.
How to convert string to unix epoch milliseconds without creating local date time objects
I got strange symbols in Eclipse tabssmth is wrong with my Eclipse and now i have such strange symbols like that, does anyone know how to fix it?
Getting referential integrity constraint violation while trying to delete from One To Many relation with cascade Type.
Large JSON array data passing as a parameter is coming null in Java servlet POST
how to change the dns adrress via an android app
String format in form $XX.XX, 
Duplicate Value when parameter names are different and constructor chaining only giving zeros as output
How to use Microsoft Edge with Selinum Java hope that you're fine.
What does the error Sharing is only supported for boot loader classes mean?
How to output a long string from Scanner input in Java
Java onclick event open new popup
How to fix Java http mulitpart file upload that does not return?
Configuring Azure AD as IDP in Spring Security
How to load data into an ArrayList after it's finished loading How to load data into an ArrayList after it's finished loading?
Apache Ignite throws Failed to deserialize object with given class loader on startup ( Client - Server )
Use Structural design pattern to choose been dynamically
Calculations for the volume of a sphere is incorrect
What is reason of "Already had dead JAR" error?
Spring authentication Entry Point wont show default Spring Session Defaul Forms (404 error) I have a Spting boot app 2.4.2.
How to fix my Java "unsatisfied link" error?
Java compare two sub objects I have a class - it has a field "id", which is an int. Let's call this class "Author".
Creating a method inside the arguments list of a java method
Agora.io Video call stops after some minutes of lock screen in android
Peer to Peer communication in Java I am trying to develop a simple Peer to Peer chat using Java.
Java, getting data and passing it into another class method
Problem with Maven in POM Don't copy file
Accessing a file in src/main/resources while using docker I am just learning how to use docker with java so I am very open to advice.
Save and retrieve data from firebase database Android
instrumentation.retransform Classes() throwing fatal error I am trying to develop a javaagent.
How to get the content length(aka file size) from the Media Http Downloader?
Invalid instruction "targetApi", valid instructions are Remove replace Stricttt I get this error
How to fold away all variables to improve code readabillity?
Avoid duplicate mapping in Map Struct
Getting a Class Not Found exception when using mongotemplate
Executing shell commands
JBOSS EAP 7.3 : How to override jboss.as.jpa.provider Module for all server or server group?
Slow spring/hibernate web application on a tomcat production server
Why does the `insecure` option not work in maven?
Java listen on entity's child collection change
Are the Methods described in the Documentation of Mock Server static imports or am i supposed to pass my own methods?
Copy value from one hashmap to another
Generic gRPC Java Client - existing implementation
showing highest and lowest value of a series of objects in java
Filter data on array
How to pass integer vales from one java file to other java file after clicking button
J Table position (x,y) location in J Panel
Get Authentication key, Mi band 5In the earlier versions of Mi Band such as Mi Band 3, pairing with third-party standalone was pretty easy.
Tomcat 8.5.50 the Error Report Valve is not working
how to save only the minute and second hour in mysql annotation springboot @@ Json Format
Soot not finding class without a main for call graph
Java Inheritance: method in subclass overrides method in superclass
Getting Access denied if call API without call the official website
Directly Enable Permission Like Location
FCM without Including Server Key I use FCM as my engine to allow users to send messages to each other.
background image size for Androidd I'll make a picture for the Android background. 
Android Handler in thread?
How does Gson serialize and deserialize inherited POJOs generated by Lombok?
non-static method has NextLine() cannot be referenced from a static context without having a static keyword
Stop a Source Data Line from user input I want to make a music player in Java using Source Data Line.
Spring Boot Security: How to skip login for localhost?
Rebalance Apache Helix Manager when an instance in the cluster comes down
Using generics with @Named in mapstruct 1.4.1
parse tims tamp in offset format
Unable to capture text inside new window in Java Selenium Headless browser
Rendering Complex Bodies in Libgdx I am trying to render the bodies that I made in the open-source tool using ShapeRenderer.
I am reciving a bean creation error with my security config class for spring security these are the errors i am getting.
docker commit does not include manually copied file inside the container
Java - How do I decrypt Chrome cookies?
Remove SQL logs hibernate (Sql Statement Logger)
How to set preferred width of a column in JX Tree Table in swing
Adding a java class (as a webservice) to the Apache Tomcat server to call it from another java client class running on my PC
Missing grant type error, When generating new Token from Refresh Token using Spring Security Oauth2
How to find maximum date for every product in a list in Drools
How to test Comparator for JUnit test? I need to test the compare() method and i am confused on how. Can I see how to do this?
Exception handling Help (Java) simple banking application
Disable web service addressing attributes in axis2 (v 1.5.6) generated stub
SSHJ When executing instructions that need to be input, reading input Stream after writing to output Stream will always block
Set maximum Pool Size and minimumIdle based on processor and memory server
Is POSSIBLE to Spoof Bytes?
my after method does not work everything seems normal to me but it is skipping. Any suggestion?
Using ssl certificate with feign
Java&Selenium&Firefox/Chrome: unable to press CTRL + F5 for page hard refresh
Exercise With array list input with scannermy exercise is with collect soccer cards inside an array list.
how to draw a rectangle around faces in an image in android studio
X path contains text() doesnt work with comments Can someone please explain why i cant find h2 which contains text?
How to understand JDK9 memory model?
X509 Cerificate check if is issued from some CA
How to auto restart my Spring Boot JAR application after shutdown due of Low Memory
How to access external camera using camera2 android I'm trying to access external usb camera in android(java). 
How to insert HTML form data into a Cassandra database with REST web service using Java
Web.xml file does not have auto complete I'm using apache netbeans 12
how to wright Adobe Illustrator Script changes special words text style to Bold
How to add generic Set to Map (Map<String, Set<String>> map = new TreeMap<>())?
java list.remove work well for first element, but not the others it was known that can't use list.remove in foreach.
Hibernate n+1 issue with 3 entities I have 3 entities.
Why aren't there compatible JREs for JavaSE12+?
How to read a specific value from a JCo Table objectI successfully got the Table entries from a SAP system via RFC_GET_TABLE_ENTRIES. 
What is the 10001st prime number?
Is file overwriting in Java safe?
How to get the request metrics with Web Client or Http Client
Cannot understand response returned by OpenSmpp on Java I have never implemented an smpp connection this is the first time I am doing it. 
Android resource linking failed instant_run_merged_manifests\debug\AndroidManifest.xml:18: error: unexpected element <queries> found in <manifest>I have build an Android app in which I am using Facebook ads but now I won't to add Google admob ads as well but when ever I am adding admob dependency and run the app it is showing this error.
IntelliJ change default scopeIn IntelliJ there's this shortcut "cmd + shift + o" to go to a certain file that you can type.
Desktop.getDesktop().open(file) on Ubuntu not working
Is thread safe to inject an aop:scoped-proxy with scope="request" bean in a singleton bean like a Servlet or a Filter?
I want to build a PDF doc, using Glen K. Peterson's Pdf Layout Manager, but I'm stuck at building a table
How to grant the client application access to the requested scope in microsoft azure I'm getting this error
creating hive table using gcloud dataproc not working for unicode delimiter
Cucumber variable parameter store separately
How to map a stream of class objects into a stream of properties of said class?
Downloading same excel file in other wicket pages
Andriod chat-head not launching main Activity
How to filter based on list returned by map param using Java 8 streams
Calculate position with distance and coordinates in Java
Android studio java object get property Object
Exception handling using log4j2 I'm new to java.
Unable to load class 'org.gradle.internal.impldep.com.google.common.collect.
How to set a Flash Message in Spring Boot with Thymeleaf
Spring boot actuator not start with the port specified
A chicken and egg problem with Spring Cloud Config Client and Server when BOTH are mTLS enabled?
Log4j2 logging to console instead of files
Deploy a web app developed for Heroku to Azure
In Subarray with given sum I'm stuck on how to return an ArrayList in Javastatic ArrayList<Integer> subarray
Trying to update multi images.
How to log only part of an exception?
Android version check pop-up window
How to set baseUrl in Retrofit?
how to make gradle codestyle check to use intellij's code style file
How to make fields in type class mandatory based on the parent class during deserialization
Soap envelope with ws-security contains two Digest Value in a response
Efficiently execute multiple commands that depend on another long running command on Unix host with JSch
Tomcat error 404 not found while running a REST API
Java - intelliJ - generate test files with an extra line after the closing "}"?
How should I serialize JPA entity to JSON format
How to detect that there is string in an input in Java?
How to send HTTP request from Java i'm creating java module to parse JSON file.
How to make Hibernate automatically delete orphaned entity association records
Is there a possible way JMenuBar can be clickable? I was doing a system and came up with a JmenuBar I would like to ask is JmenuBar not clickable?
Changes in Live Data<List<Obj>> aren't shown in recycler View, which is subscrived on the Live Data<List>
install opencv on centos for java I'm trying to install opencv on my centos 8 server to be used by java program.
File Writer is not writing anything into the file
How can I add an associated value to a map that already has a key?
How to convert Future to Stream without calling Future.get?
Construction tree I wrote a tree construction method.
Android Downloader to download file using WP auth cookies & WP REST API token
Spring boot with javaFx I'm working on a java desktop app using spring boot and javaFx.
Java TCP: Buffer underflow when reading an input stream from the network
How to run Java benchmark on remote machine I have jmh set locally on my machine.
VSCode debugging Quarkus application using a profile
What services can be used to give my webapp's users their own email inbox under my domain?
Redis Http Session is creating different sessionIds for requests from the same browser
Correct Use of Spring Boot Hazelcast Auto-Configuration with @SpringAware MapLoader
How can I parse the JSON response and could get value from known key as output?
IBatis Cache Error : 'SERIALIZABLE_NULL_OBJECT' I have implemented ibatis cache in my code's sql statement, It works fine mostly.
Android: TFLite giving giving wrong predictions compared to Python for same model
Symmetric 2D array of random numbers 
Accumulo init : ERROR: Unable to find Hadoop Configuration class on classpath, check configuration
Understanding and exploring how JAAS-GSSAPI-JND
how to use sort.and() in spring
Array Objects & Methods I really need some help with my assignment in school. 
Does REST doc have to contains all possible values of each request parameter?
simplifying THIS fibonacci method 
How to remove spring boot permission to do database structural changes
Java 1.4- Unable to solve XXE vulnerability while using Document Builder Factory and Transformer Factory
Unable to Run my Spring Security MVC Web App Spring Chain Filter throwing exception, raw Password cannot be null
How to fetch data from SQLite in the background with callback without Room?
How to sort a 2-D Array according to the highest value in row
How to address Array Index Out Of Bounds Exception without using try-catch?
Unable to find Custom Gradle Plugin in Maven Local repository
spring-data-jpa many to many find By ID
Generate RAML file for existing API in Java
Set a bool variable if program is running from Eclipse IDE or compiled binary java
Can I map to a non default constructor with Model Mapper without defining any custom Type Maps or so?
Using j Query to close alert, get alert's text I am working on a Java project and I need to use j Query (it is my task). 
Spring Boot Maven plugin: deploy two jars; one repackaged and one not
Samsung phone camera screen lock
Java handle invalid request Mapping urls including decodingsin my api Controller
How to formulate a binary differentiation problem recursively?
Is there a way with a vaadin 8 custom layout to modify the element class attribute on a parent element?
map(From)' in 'Mapper' clashes with 'map(Object)' in 'Cursor To Message Imp l'; both methods have same erasure, yet neither overrides the other
Anychart Android Java export chart as SVG or PNG in specific local folder
Java Google API authentication - Is there any way to omit step where app asks for visiting the URL
Mocking an interface with nested static class I have an interface and its implementation which I can't change.
back button goes to confirm form resubmission
Fabric API getting the color of a grass block
What are switch expressions and how are they different from switch statements?
Is there a function to count iterations of for each loops in Java?
JFugue - Pattern Output of MIDI file clarification
Why my fore Ground service stop if i press button "Clear all" my permission in manifest
Java REST api authorization issue
Android Studio, define a JAVA_HOME variable I saw a video on Youtube for enhancing the performance of Android Studio.
Accessing weights and raw activations of all layers in deeplearning4j My goal is to visualize a model classifying an image. 
Text View height changing automatically with different text in android
How do I serialize a list of objects with Jackson?
Finalization of object fields I'm having difficulty understanding the implications of sections 12.6.1 and 12.6.2 of the Java SE 8 Language specification.
Lambda expression with Double Comparator
PKIX path building failed: Sun Cert Path Builder Exception: unable to find valid certification path to requested
How i supposed to show list View in fragment class with adapter from another class
Android: How to solve a bitmap smoothing problem?
Calling stored procedure using spring data jpa where SP is operating on multiple tables and return a resultset
Java synchronized on another class object
Decimal separator in long (Java/Spring)
Cannot use Apache Commons-IO in Kotlin I'm writing a CLI application, using the default template from IntelliJ IDEA.
Spring Cloud Data Flow using launch task after new file in AWS S3 Bucket source
Try with resources using a connection pool and single connection
How can i access spring remote service via non-spring java application
If condition in repeated count down Hi I am making boxing count down timer.
@Autowired fields null for beans created in a loop (second bean onwards) I am creating beans by calling the method get Action in a loop.
While passing an attribute typed class as a parameter to a method, is it possible to access it without setters?
How to enable caching in a Spring boot application by using Mongo as database and Redis as cache
What is a secure way to implement "recover password" feature on a Java desktop app?
Android: Stopping java main method without closing the activity
Open telemetry Java auto-instrumentation data to Jaeger
java.lang.Null Pointer Exception when setting text to Label Every time I try to set the text to the label 'lblTaskName' 
Can we invoke service provider URL from Java backend using Rest Ful API in SAML 2.0?
Properties file not getting read by Spring I've spent hours on this.
Files come with .icould extension in Android studio I've been working on a project on Android Studio for long time.
How to set the Timezone for i Calendar in Java?
Disabling high dpi settings for java swing when building an exe
Connectivity issue with Postgre sql using JDBC I have a legacy Java based web application which used Oracle 7.
How to get Date Time Picker value and could throw true if its value will be empty in java
Get RAW-Response from Rest Template
Is Concurrent Hash Map's forEach method thread-safe?
How to play music on Android while activities are on fore ground
Error to send a file to AWS S3 from Java/Spring
How to create maps intent in such a way that if maps app is not installed on user's device than it should open the maps in a browser?
How to mock AWSIot Data.update Thing Shadow(updatething Shadow Request)
Is there java function that split string this way?
How to filter multiple data within a single API path?
How to fix static/non-static conflict between .this and .set On Item Click Listener?
Java Swing: Syntax Highlighting in J Text Pane
Error inflating class androidx.appcompat.widget.Toolbar android
Why do arrays in Java need to have a pre-defined length when Objects don't?
What is a StringIndexOutOfBoundsException? How can I fix it?
Java opening file form actual user home with ~/Is there a way in java to open file form actual user home using ~/ operator?
Does singleton bean shares data with all the users in Spring?
Getting Cannot load null bitmap when loading images from gallery
Is there a way to set mobs to target a player no matter if they are passive or aggressive?
Smartcard readers not detected by Java in redhat 8.3 environment
Can we map char[] to VARCHAR in Hibernate entity?
not able to launch the app on android studio is it showing java.lang.Null Pointer Exception : app is not launching. 
how can I select date from text in java?
Python: turn java for loop to python how to do flowing for in python : I am interested to do the code below which is in java for python.
How do I access a field from a class that is created using @Json Sub Types?
Shuffling Obser vable List fires incorrect change notification Method FXCollections.shuffle() fires only wasRemoved change notification.
Log into one page then grab that login and automatically log into other pages without having to type user/pass again
Why is Maven generating method with 5 parameters instead of one from wsdl?
intellj IDEA doesnt build jar properly I followed this "tutorial" to build a jar from a project in intellj. 
Herms Weblogic 12c discover option throwing java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: weblogic.management.Web Logic Object Name error
Is there any best practice on java Super.call?
Mocking Save Method using JUnit/Mockito
Eclipse OpenJ9, -XX:+CompactStrings and Trademark symbol in Path name
Can't make button visible in Java Swing
How to set up SOAPMessage boundary?
Recycler View only shown on minimized
How to create java.lang.reflect.Method using method stored in String
How to use name pattern in Basic Thread Factory?
Bindings not updating properly Yet another binding issue from me.
When using Time Limiter along with Circuit
Why is my application not updating when I rerun it?
How to update JSONArray with new values?
Ksoap2 Library to android studio Error message, how to fix?
Setting JAVA_HOME in .bash_profile not returning correct path I'm on a MacOS Catalina 10.15.1.
Duplicate field error while converting a class to generic in Java
On-the-fly comparator that works correctly with Concurrent Skip List Set
How to prevent bottom navigation from hiding when scrolling a Coordinator Layout
How to fix "specify a valid range of job id's for Work
Parse database not logging in users
Lag when displaying many images in JavaFX Grid Pane
How to recall the attributes of the specific agents that are stored in a collection in Anylogic 8.7?
Java delete lines in a file?
Can I get Mock Mvc to generate unique session ids across test runs?
Log4j2 logs changed to debug and logging in jvm logs instead of app logs We changed the log4j version from 2.8.2 to 2.13.1.
App freezes when Coroutine Dispatcher is called inside a Coroutine Dispatcher
What is a stable way to perform command line operations with multiple parameters from Java?
Wildfly query string contains // replacing with single slash (/) where servlet uses send redirect(302 code)
J Label Text not Showing, J Frame Freezing on Wait
set JSON serializer to use single-quotes rather than double-quotes to flank values I am using flex json.
Why is kotlin not creating a Required empty public constructor for the fragment as required by android?
Java TCP Server is not reading the file content The Java program for TCP Server and TCP Client are below.
TreeMap<String,(new TreeMap<String,Integer>()) Treemap With Object
Android Studio Java - How do I use a random array without repeating?
Cannot run program "cmd" in Net Beans
File Net P8 conection with ecrypted password from Java app
Mismatched Input Exception when usin Object mapper to convert JSON data into Java class
Open Api generator for nested resources (sub-resources) (JAVA, JAX-RS)
OAuth 1.0 keeps on throwing Unauthorised
Formatting data and inputting to a database in Java
Having trouble with java animations
Exception when clicking J Tree (null pointer exception)
IntStream leads to array elements being wrongly set to 0 (JVM Bug, Java 11)
Changing colour of substring in Thymeleaf table cell not working
how to place the logs under src/main/resources/ in maven project I have a maven project.
what to do is it says:- Manifest merger failed with multiple errors
How to query Dynamo DB with multiple Indexes?
Clarification on how character encodings work
Number comma separator for String numbers in Java
Java Servlet Null attributes
how to make animation of the last item only in Recyler view
Send Java array as JavaScript parameter Problem
null object from Model.addAttribute in Spring MVC Framework
Do session objects take resources in my application? Won't garbage collector remove them?
Printing an array in a pattern in java
Find step to divide sum of two very big ints on equal chunks I have two limits - start and end which are long values.
My jsp and html page code are not similar
Intro URL Parser usage on Eclipse I develop an eclipse based application.
How to detect duplicates in Array List Java
Getting unwanted characters when reading command output from SSH server using JSch
How can i make use of two methods, one from Java Servlet and other from js file on Input button
How to include origin and destination UI window - Google Maps app
How to add opentrace interceptor to rest Template?
How to programmatically invoke "Add all ambiguous imports" action/quick fix I have a custom action which changes the text of a file.
How to get the path of a running JAR file? Want to improve this post?
How to select options from 3 inter linked dropdowns with the same class name and different values using Selenium and Java
Group by, sort and sort the group in java
Android Nearby Connections cannot connect to device.
How to open Instagram and other social media apps from webview in android I've created a simple app with webview.
Keyboard not showing up when Edit Text is clicked
How to compare the values with a 2D array elements?
How can I access a variable that is out of a class' scope?
Apache Commons: Unsupported Zip Feature Exception (LZMA)
Purpose of JPA native named queries 
Selenium Chrome Webdriver gets 408 time out error The problem is getting an HTTP 408 error every time when we execute the test.
How to find this check sum using Java
is it possible to attach the certificate without store in trust store in ssl context
Java Executing one thread and make others on waiting mode
Invoke exe file from spring boot application
Split String from the last iteration
Handling exception using exceptionally on a Comple table Future
How Process Builder and Runtime.getRuntime().exec(cmd) depends on Bash and Sh command?
java.lang.Class Not Found Exception: org.springframework.web.servlet.view.Internal Resourse View Resolver I am a newbie in spring.
Java Audio Streaming isn't Working, keep running into an error
how to verify certificate attached in rest template or not in spring application
Error in android studio please resolve Dependent features configured but no package ID was set
Can a thread lose control after calling a method but before the first instruction of the method?
Java : check for null in setter using ternary
Should resilience4j failure predicate cater for Errors like Out Of Memory Error?
How to add additional param in maven dependencies pom.xml file
Spring Boot - having all auto wired config variables in one class
Spring Boot with AWS Cognito Hosting issues
Canvas Paint: Draw shadow only on the left and right side
Why does an empty Java String have hash code zero?
Map Struct and Groovy "object is not an instance of declaring class" Illegal Argument Exception when accessing property
App Crash Stuck on Splash Screen- Back Button shows error
Application chat Client Server - cant send the second message I'm writing a Client-Server chat application.
How to stop Audio System while exiting J Frame?
How to concatenate this two json array option, from two different API in Android or How to get id, from recycler view without click
How can I create a function to determine the current video Url from youtube?
Running Java in VS Code on Windows 10 Education Edition
how spring Web Client can receive stream data from spring web flux server that is using http/1.1
How to retrieve ids of all elements matching criteria from Elasticsearch using Elasticsearch Repository?
Not allowed to manipulate Tree Set in for-loop I have a TreeSet that contains integers.
Where to put another method in Swing UI thread I'm making a 2-player Tic-Tac-Toe game in Java using Swing.
Mapping POJO into Map<String,Comparable>
mybatis spring framework Database call using stuck at java.net.SocketInputStream.socketRead0(Native Method)
How to position Java swing components when there is a J Scroll Pane
Archaius logs a warning on no spring.application.name found
Mapping entity to dto with business logic I'm mapping entities to DTOs in controllers layer.
Spring Cloud Function - Form Data/Multipart File?
How to intercept raw sql with spring Jdbc Template
Why use a blank @Document for MongoDB domain objects?
How to print map with list as value, which grows as every list element will have their own values and furthermore? 
Getting individual values from an Array List<Integer> I'm trying to get the individual values from an Array List but I haven't had any luck.
Why the "PKIX path building failed" happens if the spring-boot application added root and intermediate certs as trusted certs?
Find prime numbers using Array list I want to find prime numbers given range using Array List.
Pass user input from one class to another in java?
How to configure surefire plugin, so it could run non-public test classes?
Java NIO Selector dosen't wake Up Got some questions about java non nonblocking socket.
htm page is not returned while using JavaScript and Spring I have a Spring Controller with Post method below.
android cannot make a static reference to the non-static field
spring boot exception controller example
Exception (stacktrace) not available in spring boot unit test
Selenium will not find element by xpath I am using selenium webdriver to automate a process to update call records in a CRM.
Serializing enum with name() and value
Are J Component objects serialized / deserialized by the JVM during runtime?
Java pattern \p{InBasicLatin} allows characters other than ASCII like from Korean and Tamil
View added items on reopening the app? 
How to convert ppt/pptx to json in java
is 'ClassName.class' in Java same as '[ClassName::class]' in Kotlin?
Java, change somehow -[[Ljava.lang.String;@1786f9d5] to a regular String in function?
How to use a toggle to Start/Stop recording on Sensor Changed data to SQLite?
WELD - exclude application scoped bean from scanning / beans.xml
How to collapse duplicates in search results We use Hibernate Search 6 CR2 with Elasticsearch and Spring Boot 2.4.0.
Html C:Foreach trying to create table with number of ages I am trying to create a table of users ages if they have a positive test result.
how to get feign client name and url both dynamically in spring boot Java
Remove all items from list of strings that exist in 2nd list of strings
Android stop playing ringtone when connected to channel (AGORA SDK)
How to run a Java Gradle project from VSCodium with the Redhat plugin?
Spring boot how to set value of raise click?
How to represent a number that longer than long and print it
docker compose with services and mongo databases throws error opening socket
How do I randomly pick elements from an Array that satisfy a condition?
Unable to retrieve database objects using Room Database in Androidguys.
How can I create a transparent panel for shadows in sceneform?
NoSuchMethodError: com.google.common.collect.MapMaker.make Computing Map Atmosphere is throwing this error
Make a 2D array of Objects in Java
Azure Access Token - Invalid Signature in Jwt.ioIt has been a nightmare. 
Java Singleton bean method with @PreDestroy annotation doesn't finish execution
Problem when adding to an Array List its remplace all the previous data
How to calculate any power of a base 2 number in Java by not using Big Integer?
how to combine code for media in android studio I created a ringt one app. 
Most secure way of storing credentials in a desktop software
generating pact contract: how to create PactDsl Json Body that matches anything
Spring Data Elasticsearch 4 - Override Object Mapper?
How to loop back to the beginning of a table
How to send post request in java with a JSON body I am confused as to how to send a post request in Java with JSON parameters.
How to specify output to an xml file using saxon with xslt? How can I get the output as xml?
com.atlassian.jira.rest.client.api.RestClientException: org.codehaus.jettison.json.JSONException: JSONObject["self"] not found
Same query provides different results in SQL Server client and JDBC client
Azure AD Single sign on with Open SAML2 APIWe are using Open SAML2 API in our Service Provider. 
How to re-order fragment in backstack to front instead of adding or replacing with same instance of that fragment
Set timeout on Vertx Execute Blocking
how can I find which day is it by entering a number between 1 and 7 using only one if statement?
Conflicting answers on converting int to byte array of length 2 in java
Cannot be cast to Model in Recycler View adater in on Bind View Holder
Spring boot JPA function with In and Contains
Java Http URL Connection Digest Authentication getting 401
Spring Request processing failed; nested exception is java
Want to run mysql from Docker and connect with spring boot
Azure DevOps Java Tool Installer - Can't get jdk Destination Directory Right
no goals specified exception when installing maven
Lombok not working with IntelliJ 2020.3 Community Edition
javaFx and version netbeans and java 8 i have netbeans 8 and openjdk8 installed in my machine.
Why does adding an element in an IF block work while iterating over Hash Map?
Is Java "pass-by-reference" or "pass-by-value"?
Tomcat V Marguments refer application properties file path
Any way to Externalize microprofile-config.properties file in Helidon MP
<simplejavamail> Mailer.sendMail(email); never returns after successfully both sending emails and receiving them
Joining a semi-related entity in JPQLOk
How to use has Next Int in Java to check if the entered value is integer or not?
Why can a java nullable returned value be assigned to a Kotlin Non-Nullable variable?
App Compat Delegate.set Default Night Mode doesn't work on physical device
Pause video playback when user sends activity to background when intentions button is touched
Applock login problem. login works strange
Function that reads elements of a 2D array
Get all subgraphs in JGraphT How can I get all possible subgraphs of a graph in JGraphT in a List<MyGraph> or Set<MyGraph> collection?
Failed to execute goal org.apache.maven.plugins:maven-compiler-plugin:3.8.1:compile
Get Access Token as a Response through Web Portal (OAuth2)
display image in a splash screenI am a novice android developer. 
javaFX: MediaPlayer's seek method hangs the player without error message oder Status change
Default constructor is deprecated, I can't find the fragment problem in Adroid Studio
Why does the button say as an invalid button type?
Logging separately from Spring app into Elastic stack
web View.get Hit Test Result(); doesnt return image in facebook and instagram
Reverse Engineering - What's Kind of Algorithm In This Code? Someone can help me to discover what type of algorithm is this?
Micronaut JSON serialization - use getters instead of fields
Regex for dividing mathematical function
Deserializing JSON to Java using GSON results in empty fieldsI use Gson to parse my JSON response from an API.
what does the {0} in this line, double [] array = new double[] {0} , do in java?
How to select the jtable row using EclipseI am beginner of Eclipse.
How does the value of an object get passed from a Receiver to MainActivity(or the calling class)?
ZeroMQ(JeroMQ) receive calls cause java gc cycles I am evaluating ZeroMQ as a candidate for a low latency project.
Oracle database change notification is not working as expected while using QRCN I am running a java application.
Quarkus Panache OneToMany relation is not persisted in database I'm currently tinkering with a simple HTTP resource.
How to pass variable inside method of MongoDB
Get this "RSA/ECB/OAEP With SHA-256 And MGF1 Padding" combination for ruby
javax.servlet.Servlet Exception: Could not resolve view with name 'login' in servlet with name 'dispatcher'
Remove row in csv format containing cell 'NULL' in Java
Printing additional output from jmh benchmarks
How to send a value from Text View to Recycler View in another Activity
JMS transaction model with send and receive operations in Spring
Why am I getting a unreported exception java.net.Mal formed URL Exception when I'm throwing it already?
Exception parsing string to Date
Maven doesn't see Spring dependencies I have a problem with Maven refusing to recognize any Spring dependencies.
Connection with sockets between Java and C
How to calculate checksum of XML header and body using sha-256 in java
Hibernate throws Not Writable Property Exception when saving entity
How to replace deprecated STRUCT(StructDescriptor type, Connection conn, Map attrList)?
Remove white spaces from the Java string
Table line characters are replacing with "?" after mvn package
Try to find a substring of a timestamp I currently have a small issue that I'm trying to resolve, if possible, without affecting too much of the codebase.
Java Pattern single line mode I am trying to read a multiline console input from a user with a custom end of line char sequence. 
Java nested loop. Trying to reiterate the inside loop
How do I return the second instance of a substring in Java?
How Dynamic insert jsp body to tiles 1.1 I use struts 1 and tiles 1.1 in project.
How to pass multi dimensional array as a parameter to function in java
cannot be cast to androidx.appcompat.widget.Toolbar
JVM Tuning on Container (Java 8)
Spring Boot war file deployment on Tomcat 10 [duplicate]
When the @Async method that does not receive the return value throws an exception, the exception information that appears cannot be captured
How to decouple a Java application from the console during runtime
Map Struct: How to convert a POJO into multiple entities according to a array fieldPOJO
returning a string from the string array lengths equal to the input integer
g.set Color(Color.black); not working doesn't display error
Project 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-parent:2.4.0' not found
Adding spot color (PDColor) (PDSeparation) to PDF 0 SCN
Change selected icon color of bottom navigation color, based on App theme (Android)
method to play music within javafx project does not cause music to play
Packaging is missing in the Project Properties in Netbeans I wanted to build a jar from a project I just finished.
Find Bugs - Boxed value is unboxed and then immediately reboxed
How to generate unique channel name for every user in agora.io Java?
Which java package or module does the control flow statements(for, while, do while) belong to?
Why does ahadot+asarot in the print line add up while ahadot1 and asarot1 don't?
Converting xml to json does not print xml in same form
Can't start local stack on Gitlab runner with Local stack Test Runner
java modules: provides. uses don't work in webapp I'm working on a project based on Java modules.
I want to save an object with dynamic attributes as byte[] or raw data in Sqlite and load it as an Object from Sqlite
The method when(int) is undefined for the type Cart
Spring - Http Message Not Readable Exception: JSON parse error: The input was too large. 
Performing Full Text Search on Results of JPA Query Using Hibernate Search
Printing linkedlist class with one node fails
IntStream irregular behavious dropping first element
How to create a user by API or Programmatically in jbpm rhpam BPMN kie-server
Call logic after /patch/request in Spring Data REST
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NullPointerException at com.collinskandie.Main.main(Main.java:27) [duplicate]
Android Studio Java Wifi Proxy Ok Http Client return error during request.
How to use Sql server 'FREETEXT' in Spring Data JPA @Query using JPQL?
Java sound sampler does not finish getting buffer
How to get the role from the current user?
Set the Data Types for Dynamic Report
Cannot access java application outside compute engine but its running on localhost I have a dropwizard application. 
DeadLock/Startvation (wait and notify-All) I was implementing 1 - Persistent in CSMA/CD using Java.
Using Glide to add image to toolbar I'm creating an app where the user can pick a profile image from a selection of avatars.
Set Input image file type value from URL or Local storage programmatically I am trying to autofill form on Depop in Android Webview.
Wildfly - Can't get Max Connections greater than 256
Cannot resolve file 'home' Inspection info: Highlights unresolved file references in XML
Incorect Java bytecode when using Groovy trait from imported java library using Gradle (Annotation enum params are missing)
Hibernate Update Index or Constraint after DB has been created
Query generated by Hibernate is incorrect for JSON type
How to avoid 'Private field is never assigned' which is caused by using My Batis and Immutable POJO?
How to assign primitive type value to a method args using Java reflection?
Avoid @Auto wired fields are nullI am migrating project to Spring Boot and I have Subscription
Java 'while loop' variable declared in parameter list
How can I print these two string objects horizontally
Elastic Beans talk issue reading resource path - Not Found The error
Set Path Gateway Filter not working when using in conjunction with custom Gateway Filter
Will having a lot of classes to process each command separately lag my pc?
parsing a london stock exchange page using jsoup
Why is javac compiling this code with bounded type generics on the return type of a method? Is it an invalid type inference?
Vaadin 8 - The Designer editor failed to load system browser
Itext converting PDF to PDF-A-1A, Vera PDF validation Am using Itext 5.5.13.1 version and am trying to convert PDF to PDF-A-1A.
How do I deserialize a JSON representation containing array of objects using jackson?
Groovy traits doesn't have generated default getters and setters as documented
Getting Class Not Found Exception for javax.persistence.Persistence even thought I have added all the maven dependencies
Process unexpectedly exit when running android application on my phone from Android Studio
How to get the size of an index in an array list?
re arrage an array so even values come before odds using recursion in java
How to implement Login Activity in Android?
One string contains another without one character containing
Read scanner input java Having problem to read input with the scanner function.
How do I save instance of List<Fragments> I have a Array List of Fragments :  ArrayList<Fragment> array List
Your are given the root nodes of two binary search trees.
Setting Trust Store location in Windows NetBeans Platform Application
Is there a way to handle the sent of thousand messages in Rabbitmq without losting any message
Unique index or primary key violation error despite data being inserted
Is there a better way of comparing dates
Can't build a relationship Many-To-Many There are two entities: Inventory List and Parameter.
Method references in Java Sorry this is a training question.
How can Spring have problems with args setting for a bean that has no args?
Text View lost after onPause() I'm learning how to add elements to Layout Param.
Invocation Target Exception when writing an Object to Firebase Database after removing Item from Array List-Member
How to configure a file upload Java RestAPI in Spring Boot with Sharepoint?
Delaying messages from queue rabbitmq spring I have a problem with delaying messages when sending them to rabbitmq consumer.
Spring Boot REST App. You can't link bean with service in MVC controller
Native library working incorrectly on some JVMs I'm trying to use a native library in java using JNA.
Migration of persisted spring state machine
REST API Creation of Multiple Resources
Search View not updating items, only text I'm using Search View to filter music items.
Push Notifications are not showing on android I'm implementing push notifications on my application.
Seperate one array into two arrays based on the class's values. 
How to implement add Registry(Registry registry) method in apache camel 3.4.0?
Random Http Host Connect Exception connection refused
Is there a mongodb query to merge fields in a specific mongodb document
How could we locate lambda position at the source file by there `getClass().getName()`?
Right pattern to use to parse 2020-02-29T18:21:13.2627230Z using Simple DateFormat Class
logging hibernate events in a separate file than stdout console appender
Duplicate check via Unique constraint in DB not working
How to convert a Mongo Object to an Array
Java Client-Server: Stream audio files in real time I am making a client-server based music applicationn like spotify.
java f xml print a Text flow I am building a billing application.
Implementing Spring Data Repositories Interface throws an Exception
Using info from two arrays to calculate contents of third array
Uploaded images not showing up on web page
Hibernate - Rollback list of entities if one entity fails i am just working on a project to create, change user in my mysql database. 
opencv3.3.1 with jdk 1.8 FaceDetect error
Why auto wired Environment bean is null if I register AmazonS3 bean with name "amazonS3"?
Installing Dialog OS won't work because of error code 20 this morning I tried installing Dialog OS an it always shows this error.
How do I create a mysql dump file in kubernetes pod with java
Java Runtime Issue: Array Index Out Of Bounds Exception: Index 130 out of bounds for length 130 
CKJM analysis tool using Apache BCEL can't find .class file I am analyzing a java project using CKJM tool which looks into compile (.class) files. 
Search for words with telephone numbers from 2-3-4 tree I have a dictionary of words put in an 2-3-4 tree. 
How to implement a filtered Set<Object> collection as a method in my main programm
Save downloaded video from url to storage not working on real devices (Path not supported)
I am not able to use get Download Uri() at line no 181.
Why is my random number generator becoming an unused assignment when using it to input values for 2d array?
Retrieve an existing VPC from Java program (AWS CDK)
Optimized solution for traversing list of objects (groups) and each object has list of objects, and I need to apply inheritance
Listing all shared drives from Google drive
How to have a list of sockets Java Basically, I want a 'listen' thread to create a vector of sockets that the main thread can access.
Recycler view adapter with buttons didn't work I want to create recycle view with 2 buttons.
TCP Server and Client in JavaI tried building a TCP server and client using Java. 
Why Tomcat is using different threads when request url is same and handled with Comple table Future?
Update same object with collection in multiple sessions?
Linking Java Appender Configuration to Java Logger class
java process consumes more memory over time but no memory leak
Array Value Passing from a Scanner Object instance
How to calculate remaining days of the month? 
Apple ecies Encryption Cofactor Variable IVX963SHA256AESGCM vs Bouncy Castle ECCDH with SHA256KDF
Java: .mp3 audio file streaming from server to client gives Unsupported Audio File Exception
How could I get the code coverage of Hotspot after executing one java command?
App is crashing when trying to check radio button status
JavaFX RunTime Exception I just designed an interface using Scene Builder and f xml When I run the program, it gave me error. 
React Native, failed for task ':app: compile Debug Java With Javac' I'm trying to run my app in my device but when I run react-native run-android it's showing me this error
cloning an object some of whose properties are objects
Group calls using WiFiP2P in Android I have created an android application where two devices can connect through a socket and talk with each other.
mock an interface with Mockito and access the parameters in the mock implementation
No variants found for 'app'. Check build files to ensure at least one variant exists: Android Studio
count number of level in Binary Tree I'm trying to count number of node in specific level using recursive "Java".
How to select check box in selenium java, if we have two preceding check boxes
Feature files discovery in cucumber-junit-platform-engine
How to change j Button text from j Text Field text?
Trying to understand the logic of touch handling in Android I've got a basic understanding of Java but I admit interfaces still confuse me a little bit.
How to implement the Accumulator interface Task: Create class Integer
How to add button on view page 2 layout?
broadcast receiver stop working when app is closed I want to send notification every day at 16 : 21 every morning.
Cannot clear an Array Adapter I have a filter panel and I get a data from it and from my Firebase Realtime Database using a callback.
Account for Basic Authentication info with spring-cloud-gate way
Java Http Request Hebrew encoding I'm doing an HTTP request to Facebook's graph API, and the response is in JSON.
Ambiguous constructors found error when there more than one constructor when using Map Struct I'm new to mapstruct.
SSL Handshake Exception while parse data from url in a loop Good evening together.
Spring Boot Application not starting from J Unit Suite class 
Test for the efficiency of a minimum spanning tree algorithm experimentally?
Elastic search what is preferred way to move java SDK queries to rest API
Getting data From a java DB with SQL Using Result Set
Send Parameters weird behavior in jSS7
Centering J Buttons in a JFrame - Java I want to manually center multiple J Button in a J Pane l but my pixe l count does not add up. 
Trying to get this loop to end after 20 lines
@PrePersist is triggered, @PostLoad is not i'm trying to use JPA Entity
some devices give error mistake (invalid double value)
broad leaf commerce 404 on index page
Datagram Socket, how to clear the input and output buffers?
Java runnable object expected but passed in a method
Runtime Exception .<init> in Basic Java Application web with JSP and Glass fish
Netty: Best way to create stateful, synchronous outbound pipeline?
How can I get java to tell me the correct amount of lines and words in a file?
Tinylog: Combination of logger, tagged logger and slf4j behaves strange
How do I return a serialized response for field data not stored in ES
JavaFX default onAction effect Can someone tell me how can i disable the default effect that occurs when clicking a button?
Java regex matches to array list
Method reference to property setter How could I get method reference to property setter without using kotlin-reflect?
Aggregate objects into collections in Java using streams
How i can force JSON dates to not accept integer in java
Java Sequence Generation without repetition I have a specific requirement to generate a unique sequence number for the day. 
Implicit polymorphism vs Explicit polymorphism in Hibernate
& escaping as &amp; when hitting Java end point
Not able to view data in JSP file I am trying to fetch records from my database using Jpa repository and show it in a jsp file.
Call Java Class in Thymeleaf How do you reference a Java class using Thymeleaf?
java.lang.Verify Error: Exception on Java Time Module class of faster xml
Get response Body from Http Servlet Response Java
Order of elements in a List when serialized over the wire
Regular expression to match optional patterns
Load many-to-many relationship and map to entity
how does multithreading work in spring boot with tomcat if we use @Enable Async and configure bean named task Executor?
Is there a good way to make Piano Graphics in Java?
How disable Gson deserilization from Number to String
Ajax call does not receive response of previous session hit I am requesting an ajax call and a java method runs in loop.
No type attribute provided for component property in log4j2 with Spring Boot
When using bean Map to convert the nested Map into an entity class, it is only superficially successful
How do i split a string every five characters using loops?
for Each loop in java8 or streams
How do I convert java cron expressions into a 'number of times per day' value?
How to generate documentation if @Json Property is specified in get/set I added Spring fox 2.9.2 to my project.
How to include and exclude specific values in an array?
React native build failed Execution failed for task ':app:check Debug Duplicate Classes'working with install referrer and payu sdk.
Talend Open Studio - java.lang.String Index Out Of Bounds Exception: String index out of range: -1 - t Map
Reference Spinner by Tag I have a Scroll View with few dynamically created Spinners.
How to merge two alike items within the Array List?
gradle: Can I have a java-platform that serves artifact-dependencies from sub projects?
jhipster java tests failing - application properties I have generated a jhipster monolithic app.
Thin drivers - windows authentication?
How can I automatically confirm a confirm popup on a web page?
Overridden Sequence HiLoGenerator not updating the oracle sequence
Unable to run JAR file outside Intellij I was able to run the JAR file inside IntelliJ when I do Shift + f10.
No windows executable is generated when building tiny Media Manager
Mock Generic class in Java for all possible parametrizations
Unable to use #strings.sub string to display a portion of the text
How can I use reflection in the Lambda expression in Java stream?
Avoid raw type warnings with a factory that returns a generic object implementing a strategy pattern
Why mocked mvc test fails with exception when service is mocked? I don't understand why this test fails with an exception?
Error in libGDx development game, When I try to include A Menu Screeen
How would I make a new fraction if a fraction cannot be simplified?
Confusing, why not able to call out void passenger and there is no any error 
Spring SOAP WebService-Masking elements of XML Request payload in Log
Type mismatch: inferred type is KClass<GenderStatistics> but Class<TypeVariable(T)!>! was expected
A JSon Array - Format & Parsing I have the following code for parsing json data in a file with Jackson.
How can I get data from a PHP My Admin database into java code?
How can I prevent the user from entering the same letter in Hangman JAVA?
How to change the activity to NOW PLAYING type upon clicking a selected song from a List then playing the song I am trying to create a streaming app.
Calling a SQL Server Stored Procedure with Spring JPA
Use an immutable collection in multiple threads with Hibernate The title says it almost all.
i want to make app that use pexels api and i cant set the api in a request header
JPA saving foreign key with Null I got a 2 entity classes that the primary key for the entity is part of a composite key for the other.
validation failed: Field reference requires DS >= 1.3
Pagination in Microservice of Microservices I have two microservices which are returning paginated results(Says page size is 10 for both the microservices). 
Open feign How to use @Headers annotation with different produces and consumes types?
Find a value of a map with the inverse key
How to fetch latest files from s3 using start After option in S3 API?
How to split this X path?
Handle repetitive argument check that throws an exception
Would having multiple buttons each having a touch listener affect performance
Get credentials of public FTP server I use FTPClient to automatically downloads files from FTP servers.
Android resource linking failed error: failed writing to The data is invalid.
Implement doubly linked list
assigning each value from the list to a two-dimensional array
How to use spring cloud config server with postgresql and jdbc as backend with multiple profiles?
How does java store infinite recursive object
Unable to write to Manifest file in maven build
Swapping databases while Spring Boot app is running I have Spring Boot application which uses two data sources.
How to change a boolean variable in Java by adressing a button in html code?
Add a request ID to all logs jax-rs I have a legacy application in JAX-RS which runs on Weblogic.
Cannot convert from Map.Entry<String,Integer> to String
How to install Jenkins with JDK 15 on windows
How to make pixel by pixel P Image manipulation faster?
Scanner is skipping next Line() after using next() or next Foo()?
Add database authentication to Spring Data Rest application
Java sort array of objects by integer field and if those are identical then sort by another integer value
MS Project Viewer - AngularIs there a way to display (embedded viewer) one MS Project File (MPP) in my Angular 9 application?
How to add @Qualifier How can I add a qualifier to distinguish between these two beans?
Issue with java 8 api stream. Need to filter non existent keys
Add Leading Zero
How to fetch the user information after successful user login in SAML OKTA
SQL Grammar Exception: could not prepare statement
After sorting a list in Java, how could I access the first element?
How to debug j_security_check problems I am trying to set up an app to use j_security_check to login.
How to model repository interfaces in spring-data-elasticsearch for exclusive save & read access for managing data in an index
How to using JPQL to join two tables I made employee table and position table.
How to install React JS into Tomcat Java web application
First negative integer in every window of size k with auxiliary space O(1) and O(n) time complexity
JPA doesn't auto- create tables with One To Many and Many To One relationships
Java Development Kit execution error in terminal
How to configure Fire fox extension in Selenium?
The operator <= is undefined for the argument type int, Distance and more errors
Module-local public methods I have a module (Jigsaw) named app.
recycler view uploads items multiple time on refresh I have implemented a recycler view, where I want to show the groups that have been created in the app. 
How to create copy link address menu on android?
Spring / Vaadin throws java.io.EOF Exception on upload file (immediatelly)
DB2 external java jar file stored procedure error
How do I read csv text file so I can compare specific values from csv file with user input?
My method that adds a new node to the end of a linked list keeps throwing Null Pointer Exceptions
How to call interface field referring generic type?
How to create throw exception function that its parent function do not throw any error
Spring controller method is getting called multiple times
How to change an object's fields from an activity it was not initialized in
How add a human signature to a PDF which is captured from a signature-pad and set it to the PDF using Java & i TEXT 7?
Convert binary to decimal / hexadecimal / octal (java)
Java insert text line above specifice text in string from file with string indentation
How to import json array into java program using JSON.
Java: problem when bitmap.setPixel() replaced by bitmap.set Pixels()
How To Log When Invalid Bearer Token Is Sent To Backend
mTLS termination in Java based Vertx Framework
android Bluetooth server is not visible in discovering
AXE-Core-Maven-Html is throwing Runtime Exception: Error when removing sandbox from iframes in Selenium with Java
Collect values from Hash Map into one array using streams api I have a map, containing strings as a key and Array List as values.
Will Http Session be destoryed when page has been redirected to another WAS?
How to customize the ioRatio of the Epoll Event Loop in web flux?
Intellij Gradle Set Source dir as Root Project dir
need help or additions for tis code of floating windows i hope you are fine.
How do I use the results from some values in an object class to calculate others and set when created?
Failed to Link Error in Jboss Wildfly Deloyment
How do I get my set to stop adding duplicates?
How can i make a pause until the captcha is done?
Deploy WAR file on Tomcat of Spring boot and Angular App I created angular and spring boot application and I want to deploy it on tomcat server. 
How to initialize a generic variable I'm having trouble working with generics.
IntelliJ IDEA Creating a ton of new windows when I try to run my code
Getting sqlite busy exception [SQLITE_BUSY] 
Passing a collection of JNA structures to native method
Compiling a Gradle Java project with Java 8 but running tests with Java 11
Java: How to sort a list according to another list using streams?
Getting the Modify Method Name of Java Class when comparing to Head in GIT Is there way to get the modified method name in java class?
Broadleaf Commerce Embedded Solr cannot run with root user
Vaadin 14 session-local objects I have a Vaadin 14 application with multiple views (but no UI).
Firebase not getting new Data, after Android app was idle
Options menu for one cell in java table
Edit or update array with the element and not index How do you edit an integer in an array by using the element and not the index of the array?
Why can I only use 1 word in a string through input scanner?
Point to same element when creating multiple lists
Trying to submit a JSON body in an HTTP request gives java.io.File Not Found Exception I am trying to test an API on an Android application.
Stored variable always read as false?
seek(0) method in Rand Access File deleting my contentIn this project, I want to place each new number at the beginning of the random access file.
How would I call a method from a different class?
Extract List<Object> result from query in Java / Spring Boot I want to get the value of the result in query.
Can we use @Builder annotation at constructor method?
Regular Expression: Why do I get no match found I am trying to parse a document that consists of many sections.
Spring Security forbidden Access i have tried to setup a Multi Securitiy Configuration.
implement generic class of child classes I created an Athlete class.
How to fix unresolved imports for Mapbox 9.5.0 in Android X using Java
Find all multiples of 3 & 5 between two limits - Complexity I am trying to find all numbers between 1 and 10000000 (both inclusive).
How to fill matrix using Stream?
RabbitMq Jackson Spring - Input field Offset Date Time is String on Output rabbitMQ with Java 11.
How to create a composite primary key between a foriegn key and and a column in JPA without using an Embedded key?
How to prevent dead timed out while scraping data using JSOUP java?
Discord bot cannot verify if the user is not existing, throws an index out of bounds error
Merge two json with dynamic structure
Quarkus Keycloak Admin client
Month is auto selected to JANUARY in Calender View while selecting date from timepicker Dialog
Attempt to invoke virtual method 'void java.io.Output Stream.write(byte[])' when sending data in Android Studio
Linux file attributes, last Modified Time, last Access Time, creation Time I have an issue with Linux (Ubuntu) and the files attributes.
Calculating video duration take too much time From my arraylist
Efficiently sharing data between processes in different languages
Intellij : import project as library for another project
Java instance Of analogue in Javassist I'm working on a plugin for Gradle in android project.
How to ignore @PreAuthorize("isAuthenticated()") annotation in Unit Test?
How to avoid error in default condition in the switch statement in the new way Java How do I avoid an error in switch statement in "default"?
How to do center video View zoom?
How can i use multiple wherelessthan in firebase?
react router with spring boot rest api
Request to remove background restriction for the app (Android) If my app is background restricted, how is it possible to request the user to remove the restriction?
Send mail with multiple attachment using Graph API
Java, x Socket - frames divided into two parts - how read?
Custom cell button action to Download a file to the 'downloads' folder
Error:- Cannot index into a null array while installing java
having some trouble with return in java
Java Graphics 2D flicker only when using nvidia-* drivers (Ubuntu)
How can I show a variable from another class in a text view in Android studio java?
LIBGdx - I get gray pixels in a sprite when saving as PNG
How to create a key combination of Map from a list in Java Streams
JAVA_HOME path not pointing to correct path I am using a VPN environment for code.
Why doesn't the Java CMS Garbage Collector allow the used heap size to grow to the available heap size?
how to get the records using partition key from a composite primary key in dynamodb
How to .add to ArrayList<Object>?
Creating a file in Google Drive (G Suite) from Java with Service Account: 403 Insufficient Permission
How not to "break up" executing of a method while running
How do i store the chosen values after user input?
Spring Security default password is not printing on console
Does Glass Fish server 5.1 can started with JDK15 I am working with Apache NetBeans IDE 12.0 to create Maven Web Application project template. 
How to update GUI continuously with multithreading
Is List Literator a Sub class of Iterator
Local variables in C and Java I know C and Java uses lexical scoping and the scope of a variable is within the block where it was defined.
Liquibase bidirectional relationships changelog order
Java error while executing GCP direct runner from eclipse
How do I continue a running thread after opening up a new socket connection in Java?
Is List<Dog> a subclass of List<Animal>? Why are Java generics not implicitly polymorphic?
Handle messages in Netty without delimiters and message length Is it possible to use netty without any delimiters and knowledge of message length?
Cannot resolve symbol 'item' I'm trying to make my menu items go to different activities
Can I get value of Curren time from miliseconds value
Sidebar closing when you select a filter (Shopify)current website
Tomcat server webappsi Install tomcat 9.0. when i run localhost:8080 it is working fine.
Spock -Unit Test:How to write spock unit test for @around annotation which takes Mono
Spring Boot Security CAS Authentication Integration I am in desperate need of help. 
Why my implementation of the Drop box API in Android Studio doesn't work?
java.lang.Unsatisfied Link Error: 'long org.opencv.core.Mat.n_Mat()' I am trying to build my Java project with maven and opencv on Centos 8. 
Java Update 1.8.0_261 Has Fatal Error Calling rxtxSerial.dll I have a Java application that was previously running on JRE 1.8.0_251. 
@Async API endpoint Spring Webflux
auto update last updated field with utc time on insert and update
No Class Def Found Error and Class Not Found Exception in Android Studio
Java Print formatting decimal
Problem with output, the if statement is being executed when it should not
Using Stateful EJB dont work in JPA lifecycle
Using Completable Future in a Loop with Two Futures to Merge per Loop Iteration
com/java [in americdev jar] is not on its project's build path Unable to get package fragment root:I need to change some step of code from existing jar file.
Refresh value in <div> in jsp file taken from java class I'm newbie in java and jsp files.
Threads getting into blocked state while doing a host name look up using java
Spring-boot app start fails in Intellij Bean Instantiation Exception - works in Eclipse Made some progress
Ws Deployment Exception: Unable to to retrieve policy from URI '#User name Token'
Trying to parse Json but invalid variable name
MediaPlayer problem: all songs playing at the same time
PDFBox: Loading an Image Into PDF From a JAR Resource
Adding attachments to PDF I am using the following code to add attachments to an exiting pdf file.
Why is my change calculator not working for coins?
included jar library class not being found even though spring boot compiles I really need help in trying to get my application to run successfully. 
unable to send mails at certain time using @Scheduled
Oracle : How primary key id is generated in case of @Generated Value annotation
How to edit hue saturation and luminance by using GPU Image Filters in android Java?
Why does SSL not work inside a build jar?
How to launch downloaded file in the registered applications from browser
Gson equivalent to Jackson @Json Include 
Visual Studio Code Cannot Handle Java
Java specify command line argument from 1 to 100
java.lang.No Such Method Error: org.springframework.util.Assert.isTrue(ZLjava/util/function/Supplier;)V I have pure old legacy spring app (non spring-boot).
Why is META-INF folder is empty?
how can get mac address of router in application for android 10
Issues with simple algorithm for automatic assembly of jigsaw puzzles (with rectangular tiles) in Swing
Comparing user input to array against boolean
Trying to understand Liskov substitution principle
How can I get the exact position of the mouse at the time of a screen shot?
How to get videos folder? I am working on a video player app.
Apache Poi - Java-: How to add text containing blank lines as separate paragraphs to a Word document using Apache POI?
Given two points A(x1,y1) & B(x2,y2), I want to find the distance between the third point C(x3,y3) and line AB and length of AD on spherical surface
No Sound When Exporting Java Project to .JARBeen making a 2d platformer game and just got some custom music made for the game.
Android Repeated Notifications not working When App is Closed I want to send notification everyday on a particular time.
Java How to make a socket connection secure?
org.json.JSON Exception: JSON Array[0] is not a JSON Object - Java
How to create a JUnit of an Abstract test class with factory methods
Trying to use Graphics Context method Public void fill and stroke polygon in order to draw a regular polygon
Why did not JSON change after I added new fields to POJO
Context initialization failed : Error creating bean I have a probleme when I deploy my webapp into Tomcat 7.
Simple console program but I need GoF pattern for search algortihm
Difference between sealed and final class in Java
How to fetch image from local computer with Picasso then display it to android app with Java
Are spring transactions handled at the container level?
Why can't I see my project running in netbeans?
Java J Frame will not update inputted text
tried to access class javax.crypto.JceSecurity from class javax.crypto.Cipher JUNIT
How to increase java heap size in docker container?
Does creating a folder in default maven directory structure offered by eclipse lead to any issues?
Container, fragment rotation I have an activity Container Of Reports, that contain references to two fragments.
Get dual sim phone call logs (Call Log Is from what Sim Card)
Akka Quick start: An illegal reflective access operation has occurred
Sending 1-N data from Postman (or HTML file) to a Jersey Service
Triple DES Java Encryprion to Javascript Decryption I am using Java to encrypt a text payload with Triple DES.
Are there better ways to make an Array List bigger?
Problem with web Engine JavaFX using with swing
Spring Data REST: how to integrate custom endpoint without the need to hardcode its path element?
How to send digitally signed mail with attachment using EWS API
java Split one list into multiple lists by exclusion of elements
How to make a while loop end with a specific input
How to return a value in nested try catch and while loop in java
java super class and sub class result
How do I search for a keyword in a XML file using Java?
How to convert String to Long without losing leading zero
Design JSON in Java I have an API which returns JSON in below format.
Number Format Exception when I try to read text file of integers into a int[]
If Else in Java I'm doing a small project for my AP Comp Sci class, basically, it's just take the input, determine if it's positive or not and I'm stuck with this
Spring actuator giving 404 Not found error even after setting server.servlet.context Path I have a spring batch project (Using Gradle).
IntelliJ Error: java.lang.Out Of MemoryError: GC overhead limit exceeded
Generic way to create different pojo objects and persist in db
What are the differences of using service pattern and using standalone repository Spring Data REST?
Creating database using hibernate in postgres
How to get inner indexed object from json response in android (java) which use retrofit for rest api calls
How to reduce duplicate code for calculations based on DTO and model classes
How do the post increment (i++) and pre increment (++i) operators work in Java? Can you explain to me the output of this Java code?
How do I resolve this issue?
App crash, not sure what the error is pointing me too
random access file in java
is it possible to convert a Gzip byte array to String?
Understanding Insertion Sort algorithm I am learning the mechanics of Insertion Code.
I have this problem that I need to Reverse the first word and the third word using a stack
Integers in array JavaI have an array that contains [45,8,50,15,65,109,2].
IDE Tool to convert XML into a Java class nonprogramatically How do I convert an XML document to a java class non-programatically?
How do I display the content of the void method java
I have an error about using class and objects
Externalized Configuration in Spring boot I have a external configuration file(out side jar).
Why am I not getting the correct output in ques of printing even and odd index character seperatly?
Converting unknown Java types to Rust types
Efficient way to get some files from Azure Devops repository and upload them to Azure Blob Store's container
How to pass callback function from Java to Kotlin class
Inner join in spark JavaI'm trying to join two files 10 GB each and using inner join.
How can I get Google spreadsheets file Id by using Google drive API v3?
Draw a heart in ASCII-art style based on user input
Deserialize a JSON payload to object base on JSON integer property
Java Keccak-256 implementation incorrect hash on zero byte message
Using Terracotta for (distributed) shared Java Objects How do you share an instance / object across different Java processes?
How to set the Opacity of Text in a J ComboBox list?
Order of while loops in Java
Java Logger (java.util.logging.logger) not substituting variable
org.mongodb.driver.connection : Exception thrown during connection pool background maintenance task com.mongodb.MongoSocketOpenException
Second class is throwing Null Pointer exception for TestNG I've created different classes for each webpage using TestNG.
Circumvent old java meta-inf / services when using Java modules
Spring Unit Test Rest Controller By Setting Private Fields
Reading a File from Eclipse Src Folder
Map Struct cannot find members from generic Set property
If I have a Fragment with 3 possible layouts, how can I swap the layouts at runtime?
Java get size of event.getDragboard().getFiles().stream().map(File::length).toString()); I woudlike to get size of my file
Java RMI: Clients as Primary and Backup Server
Scanner.nextLine() ignores whitespace?
reduce a paralle l stream of arrays into a single array
Multithreading Parent and Child thread execution in Java
Flink, How to create a Sink supported Savepoint?
Russian language causing IO Exception
WARN : org.springframework.web.servlet.Page Not Found - No mapping for GET
Pivot selection for QuickSort , what is going , is something incorrect in my algo?
What is wrong with this java while loop?
Is there a pattern for data synchronization in two independent services?
Java Single File for External Classes I believe the Java way is to keep external classes in separate files.
(JAVA) elastic collision effect between moving objects
Java Discord bot remains offline I am trying to create a Discord bot using Java JDA and gradle.
Is it possible to connect my android app to multiple fire base database project?
My solution throwing exception with corner cases?
How do you combine multiple JSON strings into one ( Java )
Custom declare-styleable not displaying text attribute I have been working on a custom "Button" and it works just as I want it to so far. 
Adding item to inventory but is still clear (Bukkit/Spigot) I am coding a plugin for a friend and I'm coming across a problem.
Spring Boot JmsListener: Ignore TypeId I am currently working with Spring
Same resolution in Android Studio and my Device but different looks
What complexity are operations on BigInteger? What complexity are the methods multiply, divide and pow in BigInteger currently?
How do i make a static reference to a non-static method?
Change the selected item I have a J Editor Pane and when I press ctr + space it makes visible a J Scroll Pane
Can we use Domain model written in Scala in a Java/Spring Application? Is there a way to use a Domain Model written in Scala from a Spring+Java+Maven project?
How to add more lines in a Xamarin Pin I want to add more lines in my Xamarin application.
How to use 2 classes having same methods but without a parent class?
How does the one Spring Boot microservice know how it can send a POST to another service?
Flink Dashboard: Operator Throughput
How to conform Java upper bounded wildcard type parameter to Kotlin?
Merge Sorting In Place I am working on a Merge Sort method which sorts elements in-place without allocating extra memory. 
Open file xlsx file Error (invalid relationship part/id)
Unable to send Post Request with Spring Boot
how to fix the date regex?
How to check in Eclipse if a particular library is in Java build path?
Data class with more than 256 parameters, kotlin?
libGDX game complied to super Dev on localhost:8080 only shows one button
Collect method return as List<CustomObject> I am trying to collect the method return as list of Object.
Can I make a Fragment wait for data from Activity?
Heroku - Maven app with local dependencies works perfect in local but is not deploying
java.lang.Abstract MethodError: javax.ws.rs.core.UriBuilder.uri(Ljava/lang/String;)Ljavax/ws/rs/core/UriBuilder I have downloaded Jersey Java Rest Api example from
Could not determine java version from '14.0.1'. Android studio, LibDGX, on Windows 10 In android studio I tried to use libDGX.
Looping rest api I've REST API which exposes the JSON with a link to the next page and data as shown below
Different performance of "if" and "if else" in Java
How to put other backpack to main backpack?
My Root Folder isn't create in android 10?
Spring Boot - java.sql.SQL Integrity Constraint Violation Exception: Cannot add or update a child row: a foreign key constraint fails
How to avoid having to declare type parameters for all dependencies in generic class I have some question on the following problem. Can someone help?
Why is it said: Character Stream classes are used to perform the input/output for the 16-bit Unicode characters?
Can't insert Tabs and Spaces into PDBox PDF documentI want to print this in a pdf created by PDFBOX.
Flutter app crashes upon launching app in android I've been trying to make an offline app using json for local storage in flutter. 
hi i use liferay 7.3.0 when deploy service-api and service-service this error 2020-09-02 19:15:51.972 ERROR
How to configure Message Codes Resolver for spring custom validator
Avoid loop in MVVM Pattern i am trying to learn MVVM Pattern with my Activity and a View Model.
using spring dependency injection for runtime generated dependencies
X-Frame Options Spring Boot So I'm trying to use configure an iframe on my Spring Boot application.
Encryption of Strings works, encryption of byte[] array type does not work
JSON Parsing Date with Date Time Parse Exception/Jsonb Exception from Client Builder/Web Target program
React-native android bridge ask for permission
In ITEXT7, how to insert a visa holder without over writing current content?
Drools : How to write a rule that hits when data is not available in entry point I am new to drools. 
Custom tags along with histogram & HttpStatus in micrometer
Spring Boot and Spring Security, can't send error with custom message in Authentication Entry Point
Sending multiple files through network - time to time I have program that create screenshots and some txt files and send it throught socket.
What is need of creating the list when we have already created the Array List to store the JSON Array?
Spring Data Jpa Repository "JOIN FETCH" returns duplicates I'm writing a simple Spring Data JPA application.
Can't perform J Menu Item action in J Popup Menu without getting thrown a java.lang.Class Cast Exception
How would a "supplementary private method" help avoid raw types?
JSP Spring Boot works when running from IntelliJ, but empty page when running WAR
Change menu's item place How to change the placement of that item?
Spring Boot properties that depend on profile-specific properties
Caching Session Factory set Pool Size() takes much longer after upgrading spring boot from 2.2.1.RELEASE to 2.3.1.Release
Java - Filtering rows of an Excel file using POI
save Instance State in Android studio: Kotlin I was doing this program and tried to run an app as an output.
Getting database deadlock with @Transactional in spring boot and hibernate Why I am getting deadlock in this code?
parallel threads need to reach a point, wait on another thread, and then resume - best approach?
Get path of the resource folder inside spring boot jar
Drop not null constraint for join Columns in Join Table I have an entity, leaning on which hibernate able to generate join table for One To Many-relations.
How know a variable is read or modified using JavaParser I am using JavaParser to parse Java applications.
Using Thymeleaf to perform DOM manipulation when filling forms
exoplayer 2.11.* version throws Renderer error in android 5.0/5.1(Lollipop) devices
How to parameterize XML using Rest Assured Java
Character vs char with arrays and array lists?
In Spring Data, should I be paranoid about handling all possible exceptions?
How to increase performance for send message to AWS Queue
When you try to start the application, it closes I do everything according to the lessons on YouTube, but I can't open the application.
Gluon Project - Spring boot Dependencies not found when i run /.gradle run
How to put Gson value into Hash Map I have a Firebase database and I want to store users information in my app.
Kafka SSL handshake failed I setup the SSL for kafka.
Request Param validation in Spring 3.0.5 I'm using spring 3.0.5 for a web application running on Tomcat (Yeah, I know it's very old).
java.sql.SQL SyntaxError Exception - Could not extract result set using JOINED inheritance strategy
JPA repository with single table inheritance (hibernate)
Refactoring - a code that puts the array List value of an entity that is similar or not the same
How to use the MySQL server running on my local machine inside the docker container for a Drop Wizard application?
Count number of ones in a matrix in increasing order
Populating a list inside a for loop with an if condition Java I am trying to populate a list of integers relating to accounts in a database. 
Android Studio Linear Layout Not showing at all I have been given this to debug. 
Using Zomato Api with Retrofit
BIRT Report JSON array printed values I'm trying to print out JSON values from a database column into multiple lines in my Birt report. 
How to parse a string in a mortgage calculator to return a double.
Spring boot and thymeleaf - upload and display image I'm making a simple spring boot app with Thymeleaf.
Mapping a list of class object to another list I have the following two classes.  
My Web view App keeps crashing for messenger chat Everything works as it should except messenger.
Printing an incremented row index and average value in a 2D array I have a 2D array of 4 tests, 5 scores a piece.
Toggle button is crashing app when using set On Checked Change Listener - Android
Where is the Docker file used with Spring Boot app?
How to join string and number suffixes together in Android/Java?
How to use Lambok dependency in Spring Boot?
XSLT 3.0 Identity transform document collection?
extending java.lang.String in groovy script i've a rather complex problem. 
Java 8 comparison of 2 different lists I need a help on iterating and comparing 2 different list using java 8. 
Alternative way to replace Nested While Loop in Java
How to create a new Java EE project in Intellij 2020.2 without Gradle or Maven?
Problem with creating a connection to the database
Deserialization of JSON with integer keys and string value in Spring-boot
how to get latlng from Location Settings Response method?
Hi, everybody. I am solving a 6 kyu problem on code wars and my code doesn't work everybody.
My eclipse fails to freeze the output of a java code
Android TensorFlow - E/Surface: queueBuffer: error queuing buffer to Surface Texture, -32maybe the error is like on Wallpaper crashes with error - queueBuffer: error queuing buffer to Surface Texture
Round percentage value to nearest number I wanted to convert a number which is in string format to a percentage value with one decimal point.
How to (de)serialize POJO to Avro and Kafka without generating code
Java Graphics2D - Zoom on mouse location I have a j panel that I draw on.
working 'java -cp' not working all of a sudden in ubuntu
Unable to create team from group
unable to execute hibernate query statement?
Which statement would compile fast?
Redis like a database We have a redis with standalone configuration and I am using lettuce to connect with it. 
How to read large .txt file in chunks of 1000 lines
Trying to find the best way to check Null Pointer Exception with nested multiple Object - Java 8
spring data mongo db: duplicate key error when extending a base domain class
Inserting one table primary key into other using JDBC in SQL Developer
Kubernetes pod (Java) restarts with 137 TERMINATED
Why a list size lower than COPY_THRESHOLD means it is a array list?
Unsatisfied LinkError when trying to create new instance of TessBase API
Apache Spark SQL unable to resolve given input columns that are created within the sql Text
How to tell if in a synchronised block in Java?
Using AWS lambda with python or java code to get JSON from Rest API call and insert into oracle DB
Beginner to API Json - Attempting to understand URL output
How to extract positive numbers from one array and move them to another in Java?
How to use query limit in custom Couch base Lite plugin in Android (Java)
android Scroll View not working in fragment
Google Cloud Speech-To-Text API 401 Error java
Java Server using Jetty: Very simple example does not work, displays HTTP ERROR 503 Service Unavailable
Is there a way to make a loop until there isn't a runtime error
Asynchronous Process not Working in javax.ws.rs.*(REST Client) I demonstrate asynchronous process in REST API using javax(2.26 version). 
send multiple datatype parameters in retrofit post api android
its shows format isn't support msg ,when i try to share file
why is a component in the error report for generic method call bounded?
Could not find or load main class com.simplilearn.testing.oops.Lunch New Browser Caused by: java.lang.Class Not Found Exception error using Selenium Javaplease
Running Swing apps in IntelliJ Idea Community on a HiDPI screen I run Arch Linux with I3 on an XPS13 with 3200x1800 res screen.
Minecraft Forge Modding (1.16.2) - my en_us.json file doesn't work
Loading pkcs12 file with Bouncy Castle fails on unknown PRF algorithm (hmacWithSHA256)
Gson - deserialising different types I am processing incoming JSON Strings and want to deserialise them into typed POJO objects using GSON.
Maven release plugin | Best practice | It is better to modify the version in the POM directly or modify the release.properties file
Java 8 Streams: How to match values between two Array List of Strings and create a list of another object
How to determine if a String is not a part of an array and count occurrences?
How to create folder in the internal storage instead of /storage/emulated/0 in Android?
How can i make the first screen of my flutter show up before executing native based java code that will fetch data using a java library
Unable to click on country name into android app ( Selenium , Java and Appium )
Keycloak: Create role with attributes in Java Client
How can I print property in pom.xml of build?
Publishing a snapshot JAR to Artifactory Maven repository fails to deploy
Java command working on VSCode terminal but no external terminal on mac
Spring Boot Thin Jar with Custom parent POM
How to validate cell's data using apache POI when modifying existing excel sheet?
VSCode not suggesting and autocompleting java code
Addition of two times in JAVA
Split text according to font and width I need to split text according to font and width.
N times of a number using Recursion_how return type of recursion method works
How does Reflection Test Utils work in the below code@Service
Using Inet Address to gather network interfaces I have used Inet Address as an array.
How to assert a condition in Java? Can someone tell me what I am doing wrong?
java Gherkin parser stream does not release file locks
Converting Local Date Time Object to Local Date Time I am new to Java and I am working on Java 8.
No Such Method Exception thrown when build Avro Par quet
How to fix crash on launch in Android Studio 4?
sqlLite in android didnot insert my data to table I dont know why i have return result = -1 after execute insert GasData. 
Why do I get this error in Java?
Convert a single node to distributed java application with Hazelcast
Greatest Common Divisor (GCD) by Euclidean algorithm in Java
Spring Mongo Data connection issues with Mongo Atlas Cluster
Why isn't it enough put all JavaFX deps in the classpath w/o bothering about Java modules?
com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQL Server Exception: The connection is closed while taking the value of Result set public static Result
How to create single executable jar file including all main and test packages including resource files TestNG - 7.3.0
Save image without compressingin my app, I am taking photo using the camera and I store the image to internal storage but when I retrieve the stored image, the quality of the image is becomes very poor. is there any way to store the actual image without compressing in?
Admob ads are not showing after i published my apps on App Gallery of Huawei
Log url to Spring controller from inside it
Count down Latch Demo program .Not waiting for cout down latch to get overIn this program why All count down latch over message printed in between.
How to implement maximum 3 try for requesting resource in rest api java 
lambda deserilization - does lambda expression always desugared to a static method for Scala?
Parsing application.yml Hi I try build my spring application with gradle and it gives bellow error code
Does blaze persistence support entity to hash map conversion
Change Seleniums default Timeout Exception
Skip a specific test class during maven verify phase
Why is db connection closed after trying and failing to get a lock with spring-data-jpa?                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
How to install python in openjdk:11 docker image?
How to save Bitmap image into internal storage of Phone
Constructing child class using Spring without explicit casting
Spring Transaction Template doesn't use batch insert/update
Xamarin.Android has the same documentation as official Android documentation in Java?
Maven Profiles - How do i get the values assigned to properties in the .properties file and assign them to variables in my class?
Creating a static Settings class from inside that class but non static fields not updating
How to change value in mysql based on another value in the same database?
How do I get JDK-8.0 to recognize the -Djavax.net.ssl.trust Store parameter?
How could I properly pause/resume considering the rebalancing that occurs as I add a new consumer for a long running processing?
how to Ignore certain files from main folder when reading .txt file using array list
How to convert ISO 8601 duration to seconds
pgloader - How to import a longblob as oid?
How to prevent the block from being displayed, finally, if there is no path to the file
Not able to get defined variable value in function
Java spring framework interceptor issues I have been struggling to get my logging interceptor to work for three days now.
Building an executable jar with maven depencies and external jars
error Caused by: java.io.IO Exception: { "error": { "code": 403, "message": "Permission denied. Could not perform this operation" }}
How to change the notification settings in android apps? How can I switch all these settings on programmatically?
Plugin's dependency not found in maven
MainActivity cannot be cast to com.google.android.material.bottom navigation.Bottom Navigation View On Navigation Item Reselected Listener
how to convert the following code as a lamda expression 
How to swap rows and columns of a 2d array? 
Storing values returned in a Task Runner as a field for access later
Using firebase firestore for chat with unique messages I created an app that has a chat as part of it.
compare Set<Long> that contains integers to Set<Long>
What is the <cbn-root> html element? And how to parser it by Java?
Is there a way to check something while a Timer Task is running
How to enable "parent Scroll View" when user reaches at the bottom or top of "child Web View" scroll using Java in Android Studio?
Why count of an iterable returns 1?
Can't display an image in the Thymeleaf/Spring Boot App
Java EE 6 @javax.annotation.ManagedBean vs. @javax.inject.Named vs. @javax.faces.Managed BeanI feel there is a little mess in the Java EE 6 spec.
Cant upload to Parse Server in Android StudioI [followed the following guide to include][1] Parse Server in Android Studio
Passing a Two-Dimensional-Array to an Activity from Fragment (Android Studio, Java)
Executing specific group of java x validations In my application
Spring Data JPA findAll() or findbyId() return wrong value in spring boot
Problems with sorting List<List<String>> java?
API hit count per client across multiple servers Using Spring-boot-actuator API I need to count the number of API hits per client ID. How can I achieve this? 
When play framework create new instance of controller?
How to prevent layout from automatically opening keyboard?
How can i use multiple panels with different layouts for my gui?
How to read value from mysql database based on condition?
com.fasterxml.jackson.databind.exc.Mismatched Input Exception: Cannot deserialize instance?
REST Easy provide Content Type dynamically I have a RESTEasy Client (3.6.2.Final) implemented with a proxy interface where I want to call a WS to upload a file.
Android Studio I keep getting Gradle error "The process cannot access the file because it is being used by another process"
Pattern matching in gremlin I have a graph with labels users and i want to search the users by name this is the current implementation
Avoid memory leak Thread Local Simple Date Format
Java - Thread and Static variable Just started with threads in java and I can't reason with the output of my program
Why is Spring @Autowired Application Context null in integration test?
How to read values from properties file and use it in final class
How to disable all tabs on J TabbedPane?
How does Spring Boot know which object to inject?
Implicit left-padding of the binary literal in Java
How to wait on a button for user input in order to set a variable
Java Spring: Trying to configure webflow by xml, can't find dispatcher-servlet.xml I am just starting out trying to see what spring flow is about.
Notifications in Java FX 14 I know I can create a notification with
Logback: perform custom action on ERROR level log With logback
Trying to convert a CSV file to JSON format in order to save it in mongodb (spring)
Is it possible to create a new line in eclipse console via text from a text file?
Play Framework, bind Akka Typed actor without create Provider
How do static variables work in Junit when initiailizing them from multiple modules?
Dynamically create tabs in Tablayout from a list?
How to add a class on classpath in Intellij?
In a Web Flux application, form data is accessed via Server Web Exchange.get Form Data()
How can i sign hash of xml file and integrate signature in original file
Connect to Azure Event Hub(Kafka like) with Spring Boot using connection string
Jar crashes while decrypting AES encrypted Authorization token method in code. 
Exception class jdk.internal.loader.ClassLoaders$App Class Loader cannot be cast to class java.net.URLClass Loader
Duplicate entry for primary key - registration form I have one simple registraton form with jsp, servlet and mysql.
Unable to deserialize the execution context exception when running spring batch job
Eclipse - Clipboard exception "Class Not Found Exception"
Efficiently find an integer in a sorted collection of integer ranges Problem
Requesting permissions in Android I am trying to request 2 permissions when the app opens up.
Collecting results from a list of Futures in java I'm trying to use futures to make concurrent api calls. 
Why following AES encryption and decryption is working in main method but not on client side server?
Is there a one-line way to write this same code but using some type of mutable map in Java 8?
How to insert triple items in a map in Java?
How to filter an object using multiple parameters in the specification method?
Sorting data with numbers first and alphabet next in java
wiremock stub with query params not working
Authenticating Azure Storage with system assigned Identity from Azure Functions
Why is ALBUM_ART the only field that returns null from Media Store when others are fine?
can not start server in eclipse after switch to open jdk I recently downloaded and unziped open Jdk 14
Merge List of Custom Objects to a Single List Object using Streams Java 8 I have Product Info object which looks like this
Expandable List View Android how to control state of checkbox of child and change checkbox true in parent
How to determine on which server running spring job - Host name I have simple spring job with schedule annotation.
Spring Web Sockets - Get access to web socket session in controller
Unhandled exceptions from Drop Box API in Android Studio
Lib GDX Exception in thread "LWJGL Application" errorSo to start off I'm a little new to using lib GDX. 
How can I mock the following statement by using Power Mockito?
Box Layout: can't setup child component size I have a JFrame - Super Test and JPanel - Super Login.
Why does my imported Maven project throw incompatible type error when the types match exactly?
How does bean self-auto-wiring work in Spring?
Spring Data entity synchronization I am using Spring Data to access a relational database
How can I know where my spooled file is located?
Sending RC4 encrypted data over UDP causes changes in decrypted plain text
Spring Batch, Jdbc Paging Item Reader - alias doesn't map to the Mapper bean attribute select item_num 
How to include .xlsx files inside .jar?
Unable to locate DTO in Spring Boot Application I have defined my DTO then also it can't locate it.
How to execute test classes conditionally using Junit 4.11 I have multiple test classes and I want to execute test classes based on a bean value.
Which one method implemented by Android's Activity Class is NOT A Template Method?
Invalid Data Access Api Usage Exception trying to find using JPA query with Enum value Enum
Swallow Interrupted Exception in Executor Service or not?
Ignoring comment preceded or succeed by code This is the pattern I have used for finding multi line comments
Cucumber step definitions are not found after updating to io.cucumber Previously, I was using info. cukes and now I changed to io.cucumber. 
List of Semaphores in Java and concurrency I have an application and in my implementation I need a number of Semaphores. 
How can I make IntelliJ CE's Java syntax highlighting more colorful?
Setting bleed and slug for pdf document using itext i am using itext version 2.0.3 in java, and I am trying to set Bleed and Slug settings for the pdf document that I output. so what I want to do is, take 8 inputs from user(4 for bleed and 4 for slug), namely top,bottom,left and right(both for bleed and slug), and then once I write everything from the pdfWriter to the pdfDocument, set this bleed box and and slug box around the document.    
Java - Using AWT to change title of J Frame I am programming a simple multi-threaded client/server chat system.
can not mock final class using power mock
C Make and make looking for libjawt. so file in the wrong place I have a C++, Java, and C Make project but I am, at the moment, unable to compile it.
Why a MAP use generic wildcard extends Object cannot hold any type?
Using an interface for mocking purposes in unit tests for Java with Spring I have a problem trying to mock interfaces in my API based on Spring.
How to find elapsed time in milliseconds by compare two times tamps in java
Request Reply Future<String, String, List<Product>> not mapped, Instead it mapped to Array List<Linked Hash Map>
My Custom Exception is not thrown, instead the Array Out Of Bounds Exception Is thrown (JunitTest Error)
Cannot Find and Read Text File on Android Studio (Java)
Wrapper Use Strings to Numeric?
In Java byte take 8 bits and range is -128 to 127 why it is not -127 to 128?
How to get currently displayed location on map I'm making an Android app that's based around Maps SDK.
Write unit test for jdbc Template.batch Update() method I have jdbc Template code, on which I am trying to write a unit test case.
Incomplete/inconsistent state in Rich Co Flat Map Function I have a Rich Co Flat Map Function that looks like below.
PDF Box invalid option in radio
Unable to use external configuration with Quarkus I am having trouble to use external configuration properties for my Quarkus application.
Connect to remote MySQL from my local machine through Jumpbox/Proxy
Sort by enum field with hiber nate search
Spring boot [2.1.6.RELEASE] - Disable autocorrect input dates i got a simple problem.
Elasticsearch 7.8 with Magnolia 6.2.xi want to use the latest elasticsearch version (7.8.0) with the latest Mgnl (CE) version (currently 6.2.2).
How to disable session cookies for a particular end point?
Java decode JPEG 2000 to Buffered Image, Image IO doesn't support JP2
Create output file for each of input file from directory of files in Spring Batch
JAXB Generating unexpected tag name, returns type name I have the issue that the XML I'm generating does not match what I would expect.
Android java mediaplayer - on Completion Listener triggered multiple times after on Prepared() Problem summary.
Evaluating an expression with multiple boolean values
Using JDBC connector to connect to mapR drill failing without any Exception
Unlikely argument type for equals(): String seems to be unrelated to Member Search Request
Is there a operation that checks multiple variables for an output?
Is it possible to reenter a while loop after it has been broken out of?
Client hangs when calling Azure Event Hub and facing connection error I want to send event messages to Azure Event Hub.
Getting "BLOCKED" network state when Android's data saver is off I am developing an app to be used on a specific tablet running Android 7.0.
Spring boot doesn't run scheduler @Scheduled I used in my project configuration bean for cache evict and it's not runs.
Question about GET API Methods using wso2 I have question about how to create API GET method in wso2?
Facing Problems while creating First Maven Project in Eclipse version 2020-06
Is there a better way to build the below string with escape characters and double quotes in Java?
Spring boot Session Cannot be created when 2 or more datasources exist
How to get the 1 element before & after an element in a set (Java)
Java Generics Cast required Compile Time Errorpublic class Chooser
Spring Boot - Dynamically Restrict IP address
Getting Out of memory when reading large excel files (.xls) using Work book method of apache poi jxl-2.6.jar File size is 10mb.
Create an array of objects per each contestant by using the data stored in a text file
app is crashing as soon as count Down Timer.cancel() is called
Rest service adding an extra parameter throws error I am trying to create a REST service with body.
One To Many and Many To One entities objects are linked in recursion In my java-spring boot application 
Can I write any meaningful unit test in this scenario?
Edit spring boot app configuration environment variables in Visual Code launch file
When I added new data , I want to view top of the List.
Request body with a non UTF-8 character throws JSON parse error: Invalid UTF-8 start byte 0xae , 0xfc
Duplicated post requests protection, multithreading Have Spring Boot application.
Unable to locate a button Selenium Webdriver I need to click on CC to verify if its working.
AWS Elastic Beanstalk (single instance) : how to enable HTTPS for a Spring Boot application?
Mocking a constructor which sets member variables using other member variables whose configurable values are read from properties file
How to convert CDR to ASCII using Bouncy Castle?
char At gives a non existing value Hi folks I have a weird problem, as the title says the function char At is giving me a non existing value.
Lanterna- how do you create a simple CheckBox menu?
Custom Implementation For Each - Java
How to call pass parameter that indicates what method should be called on instance
Java Vs python AES PBKDF2. Why different output?
How is the interface being instantiated, without implementation of any class?
G1GC causes gradual memory growth and full GC brings it down
cucumber.runtime.Cucumber Exception: No backends were found I am trying to run a BDD test with cucumber in a Maven project.
Generic method to take different class objects I have 3 class(techspecs, packages, and features) objects where they all share the same fields. 
When initially building spring boot module, source Folder is incorrect in my iml file
Class loading issue for a Buggy Jar Short Question
Is it correct to validate string length not equal to 36, when converting it into UUID
Java Integers Min_Value negative then compare
What does it mean to pass a value through an argument to my program?
Swagger codegen downgrades gradle version I have created a gradle spring boot project in eclipse. 
Inner classes not apearing in jar
Spring Rest Controller not displaying html page, just text
add cucumber plugin into intellij idea I want to add add cucumber plugin into intellij idea.
I can't get a input from user as float in java
Load data when set User Visible Hint is deprecated in Android X
Array Index out of Bounds exception from type casting(Ignore this question, nothing wrong with the code, I was very confused, however I have found it is the fault of a poorly made testing system).
Spring Boot + OAuth2 + REST API - Certification Path Not Found I'm implementing a RESTful API in an existing Spring Boot v2.1.4 application.
How to add click event in push notification?
Error occurred in partition processor while running 2 instances of java sdk app to listen event hub dependencies getting used
How to retain annotation of default method of interface after implementing and overriding said method
Data Binding Util not found in my main Activity
How to get output of docker executed command in docker-java library
Cannot connect main activity to other activities while making android navigation component
Quick loading splash screen after re-accessing the app in Android Kotlin
Algorithm fails to execute on final array values
How can I set the alarm volume to zero?
How to rewrite a Rewrite Valve for Undertow / JBoss 7.2 EAP?
How to attach image to email on Android emailIntent
Dialog Flow with Android I'm making an app with Android Studio (Java) and Dialogflow V2.
Path of an SVG file
How to find a specific object from an array and return it?
Error 500 when deployig my first Servlet in NetBeans using Tomcat server Greeting to you all
Inject Injection Point in Generic Class to get the actual class type?
Spring boot - Hive : Driver does not support get/set network timeout I am connecting to Hive DB using JDBC.
error while committing and navigate using ADF popup I insert data into form so transaction becomes dirty and i check for that.
Splash screen leaking memory how to fix it? My Splash screen leaking memory can anyone tell me how to fix that issue?
How to add loggers without actually touching the existing java files?
mock-maker-inline makes test fail with "Not A Mock Exception Argument passed to Mockito.mocking Details() should be a mock" on non-final non-static class
Clicking a J Button from keyboard using Key Listener Like I described in the title, I am required to make a J Button clicked if a key from a keyboard is pressed.
java async service implementation using Blocking Queue
Does any one have an idea about how to set password to existing pdf using open pdf java lib? how to set password to existing PDF  using Open Pdf java lib?
Database access and storing of models in memory I'm creating a java fx application but i got a question about the way dealing with my database.
Showing a blank activity in android My problem is when I go to a view pager it shows for a second and then I get a blank page and I don't where is the problem.
Java program does not continue after exception
How to know the locator of post UI elements for Selenium
I got an unexpected token in while loops
Pause Exo Player from Adapter class when user navigates away from page playing the video
netbeans problem on showing text within nimnus look and feel When I set my Netbeans look and feel to nimbus and a small font seems great.
How do I make a calculator that multiplies more than two numbers?
Why does my code only replace certain characters with the string replace method?
How to retrieve the text Effective Date from the text node within th node using Selenium and Java I want to retrieve text Effective Date from the below image.
KendoUI for JSP - How to connect to MySQLguys, I am relatively new to KendoUI and now I am learning by their examples to populate Kendo Grid with data from Database.
Using Spring Data Specifications, how do you compare a division of two columns with some input value?
using Back Press method to release Media Player class problem
Cloneable#clone method unnecessary castclass MyCls implements
How do I stop PHP DOM Document::save HTML File from generating hex codes, or modify the rest of my file
Android Studio send from android to pc (windows) not working?
Put request with resteasy
Rx Java Publish Subject subscribe doesn't give anything. Something's wtong with subscription?
App loading is too slow while adding images
How to load multiple pages using retrofit and mvvm
Why does Chrome closes connection when REST API returns a large response?
Would like to connect to different On-premise S3 compatible storages in the same
Enum type as annotation parameter? How can I make my frameworks My Annotation have a user-defined enum type as the parameter?
The default value of Prefetch Copy Interval In Bytes under x86 and aarch64 is different
Two exclusive Option Group with Apache Commons CLI
How to extract a default method to the base Predicate extending java.util.function.Predicate
How to write unit test class for my Rest controller with Jdbc Template I am new to Spring boot and junit.
Error installing multi-module project in Maven
How to replace @Rule annotation in JUnit 5 on Text Report and Browser WebDriver Container?
Disable reselecting in Bottom Navigation View How can I disable reloading fragment when clicking again on the current tab in Bottom Navigation View?
How do I return an enum as a string for my WebDriver Manager in Java? How do I create an enum as a String and call it for my WebDriver Manager?
Spring, java - different constructor args - best practice pattern
Java SWT windowbuilder - images not displayed when exported to runnable jar I have developed a Java application using window builder(SWT) in eclipse. 
Spring Mongo Repository very slow to convert POJO Issue Explanation
Using jaxb/MOXy to map java classes to XML to be sent using Feign, is there any way to set Feign to use a custom JAXB Context Factory?
In Java, how can I pass an array directly as a parameter to a function?
J Units Parametrized Test vs Test Template
elastic search is indexing only recently added record in db and ignoring previously added records I have installed logstash and elastic
Store objects in Array List and output Object description I am writing a program with separate files in the same package. 
How to implement Doubly Linked List after the first element I'm trying to create a double linked list in Java.
How can i get all the biggest array instance in a list of different string values in java 8 For example i have the below list.
How arbitrary JSON string can be deserialized to java POJO?
How to make the user see his own data after registration?
Checkbox does not show after changing font Hello I have a problem with displaying checkbox in alert dialog.
How to pass a Input and Expected file name dynamically for Before All Method | Junit 5
How to convert List of int array to 2D Array?
Getting "The method is Empty() is undefined for the type Optional" Error in Java File My Eclipse Java compiler doesn't recognize the is Empty method in my code.
Ways to get mysql(innodb) AUTO_INCREMENT Column, JDBC/getGeneratedKeys()/last_insert_id (in OkPacket) and LAST_INSERT_ID()According to mysql doc
Postmapping not getting called when api called from angular to spring boot
how can I get the integers from a comma-delimited text
SSL CA name mismatchI a new to this ssl handshaking but I am having a linux server when i am curling a https end point I am getting the response(ssl verification is done) however when i am connecting via java it fails with the following error
How to differentiate between a mobile POS device and an android phone
Read merge cell in excel using Apache POI with Spring
My Spring Boot-powered Java FX application won't run: "No qualifying bean of type available" In order to config my Spring application, I use an application.
Image is not shown in Java FX Image View I want to show an image in an Image View in Java FX.
Drag items to canvas from menu in Android Studio
Generic class for CRUD operations for domain models
Cannot find symbol of Math class
Question about connecting an external mobile to Android Studio I just started programming Java.
Queue passing by reference I have the push method to implement a stack using two queues q1 and q2 here.
How to make a class thread safe? How to make the following Java class thread safe?
Com.example path with errors When I was releasing an apk on google play I had to use a different package name cause of "com.example".
How many times the word is used on the html page I have a method that should return an integer which is the number of uses of the search
How to convert Integer to drawable I want to show an image in an adapter by using
try-with-resources Statement resource leakage and Http Servlet Request Wrapper.get Read() resource leakage
Compare Keys of more than 3 Hash Maps I want to compare the keys of four hash maps.
Spring Boot - Injecting Repository into Controller throws Consider defining a bean of type 'Type' in your configuration
Flutter how to write java code in flutter I have an application which runs correctly without any issue.
How To Pass A Method Reference With Parameter In Java?
Click button not allowing to add click count
Tomcat log with 'java.util.logging' stops working after spring migration
execute a .jar file from C# but it generates files at wrong location
Why does this simple JDBC/JOOQ code creates 10 connections to my database?
Jar renamed as .txt: Will it load? Suppose I have a jar which is renamed to .txt, will the classloader be still able to load a class from it?
How to update value on click in servlets?
spring boot webflux couchbase API not showing results I am developing a spring boot reactive API to fetch updated results from a couchbase database. 
How to write async getter with Flutter/Dart?
Hive UDF : Generic UDF cannot access struct from nested maphere is my hive table
Image to byte array in Codename One I need to convert an image into a byte array in my Codename One app.
DRYing String spread across several classes I have a Spring Boot app that makes calls to several end-points of a third-party app. 
Unable to use Gradle and Maven projects in Intellij same workspace I recently changed my main module's (X) build tool into gradle.
Java Cord on jar running I get java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: org/javacord/api/Discord Api Builder I'm trying to make a discord bot in Java using Java Cord.
Filter JSON string from String having json string and normal string in java
Firebase: modify/update string number
How can I compare ArrayList and String ignoring case?
Not able to delete Perforce CL with shelved files
Rounding LinearExpr with google or-tools SAT solver
How to extract coordinates from add On Success Listener in Fused Location Provider Client
What is the best way to cache large data objects into Hazlecast
Variable with non-standard getter name not getting returned in Spring I am trying to return Remove Hold Pay load in my API.
How to create Stacked bar chart Date time Category
How to tell a Field Editor Preference Page to invalidate/redraw programatically?
Get secret from azure keyvault azure Java servlet I am trying to get secret from azure keyvault.
String.replace() is removing parts of my string i didn't tell it to
Gzip compression not working in my project with Spring boot 1.5.10.RELEASE
Why JRE Library is changed after Maven Update in Eclipse?
Bubble sort and input I have to enter 3 jumpers who will jump 2 times.
Layout appears offset on the top I want to fix how the layout appears offset on the top.
Can't install JDK 8 in windows 10 I just had a computer with windows 10 already installed. 
Find X path for element in Selenium Java I'm trying to find a element in selenium with this X PATH.
How can I Implement fast-fail strategy in jdbc driver loading?
How to run a function and get a value and add it in text in Flutter
When parsing JSON with java, how to getText() bounded by a maximum amount?
Why am I getting Time Limit Exceeded (TLE) error when using Array List<String[]> instead of int[][]?
Looking for the Spring profile in a component class always returns null For some context
Javers : "PROPERTY_NOT_FOUND: Property 'id' not found in class" happen randomly
How to get full page screen shot including all the content of scroll able popup using selenium
How to open a mbtiles files with java on desktop?
Expected BEGIN_OBJECT but was BEGIN_ARRAY at line 1 column 12 path $.movies 
Could not run flutter project in VScode due to issue in gradle build
Spring MVC deploy war to tomcat 8.5 I deploy my application using spring mvc to tomcat 8.5.
How to sniff which Java class (library) is writing to System.out?
Reading large avro files from GCS bucket gives out of memory exception I'm trying to read large avro file from GCS bucket storage.
Cannot clean and build java web application in netbeans [duplicate]
How to update an XML file that uses MAP in Java
Partial query with Where statement using Elasticssearch 7 java api I am using the following to search.  
Veracode flaw CWE-93: Improper Neutralization of CRLF Sequences ('CRLF Injection')
How does immutable object get cached and reused in java?
How to create sequence with thread.sleep in Java
Extending userdetails.User with custom user class and still generating table in MySql with Spring Security
Hibernate Pagination not working as expected
How to save a file to external storage in the media directory in 2020?
Getting Problem In Adding View Dynamically In Android in Relative Layout Hello Guys I was trying to make an app.
Importing xml file in MS Excel - How can we automate this flow using Python or any other programming language?
Getting Connection reset exception first time while calling API after sometime of interval
Getting Target host is not specified I am calling prometheus server via Grafana
Passing dynamic value as parameter to @Value annotation
How to return DataSnapshot value as a result of a method?
How to ignore field totally by its value when serializing with Jackson with annotation on that field?
Guice Assisted : No implementation for java.lang.String annotated with @com.google.inject.assistedinject.Assisted(value=prefix) was bound
Android Java Chain layout changes into one line instead of four I got the following code
Is it possible to apply custom font for freemarker template
How to add String list view ArrayAdapter<String> am scan Qr code/Barcode, so I want to scan different qr code/barcode and arrange them is String listview.
Start Spring Boot server despite database down I have this Spring Boot app that connects to a Postgre SQL database. 
JDBC Connection Progress Open Edge 11.1 from Java
How can I find out why a particular Maven package is being included?
Gradle:Can I use a flat Dir repository to include sources and/or java docs?
How to make swing/java keep running even when user doesn't click on it
How to read specific range from a csv file and write to another csv file in Java?
Why does not array get updated on successful delete?
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.Number Format Exception:For input string: on Intellij IDEA
AWS Java SDK SSL CertificatesI have a JBoss AS7 connecting to AWS and specifically to S3 over the AWS SDK for Java
Modify Response Body when implementing Client Http Request Interceptor
Problem: The use of J Option Pane stops my J Panels from switching
App freezing when appending string in buffered reader while trying to get php output
Stanford Core NLP can not detect sentence with numbering
I am building a Count Down Timer app, that starts on pushing the button. 
Android - Use on Back Pressed for both fragment and Drawer Layout in java
count sections of one in the matrix (java) My code should go over all the indexes of a matrix.
Switch case doesn't print to the console?
Python script can't find dependencies when running from java code
java code if we want that only person which is authenticated in firebase can write while others can read which are not authenticated
Touble when using Intelli Guard2 I have a trouble with using Intelli Guard2 in IntelliJ Idea IDE 2020.
How to allow the user to download a byte[] or base64 to their chosen directory
How to pass param to mocked class method?
Explanation of code for opening gallery intent in Android I am  a beginner in Android.
Remove common entries from 2 Array list
Spring Framework - Kotlin - Save Entity to XML I would like to create an XML file in the Spring Framework at the push of a button and download it.
JSON Injection fortify fix in java
Java: Calling a method on super type does not use the subtype's implementation
I don't receive an action on my Broadcast Receiver - Android Studio
Build to executable jar
Java multi-schema generator using annotations I have a series of inter-related Java classes which form a super-set of possible schema.
Gson format Java Object List to required JSON format
to improve reuqest in java How can i get request in http request?
Java JPA One To Many relation and query maybe duplicate question but I couldn't fina a solution for my case which I think is pretty simple.
Getting Null values using Window Spec in spark/java
How to populate data in test containers?
Hazelcast Sql queries in java How to use select, where and from in hazelcast sql queries?
action Listener and ajax event misbehaving in my code 1st click failed but 2nd click working as expected
How can I send an email from my app to the user in android studio?
how to configure spring security on sping MVC using a login API of another system
Anonymous-Inner classes showing incorrect modifier
Java:Beginner question: Why do I not get the numbers (1,4,9,16,25,36,49) from this code
Connect my Android app trough an api to my server on my localhost I have a problem. 
Why the java JDK cannot print out proper message in my terminalI just installed Java 11 on my windows 10 laptop.
How to declare integer values as constants using enum class?
Jackson Json Mapping Exception .No String-argument constructor/factory method to deserialize from String value
Searching a string in a text file and learning which line is it
JPA and BigInteger fails I'm trying to store a SHA256 hash as a numerical value, which seems like the optimal way to do it from a space and indexing POV.
Print Steam Full output only creates last data set
Microsoft Graph - Java; Authorization Code Provider : how to get the "authorization Code"
Error reading assemblies: Descriptor with ID <xml path> not found I've been trying to migrate my projects from Java 8 to Java 11.
WebSocket Remote Endpoint unavailable issue sending data back to client
How to configure MySQL Connection String 'use Affected Rows' in a specific session/connection?
Get long/lat from shared place in google maps to your app
Active Memory of the system is continuously increasing
How to Get Available Disk Space *IN A FOLDER* from Java I have a requirement to send alert notifications if the disk in which I store log files reaches 75% capacity. 
Comparing paths (Windows/Linux) I would like to see if one of the two paths is inside the other.
Dynamic snowflake jdbc connection in java
Firebase Messaging Error : FATAL EXCEPTION: Firebase-Messaging-Intent-Handle
Thread runs an infinite operation which I have no control over. How to stop it?
Bottom Navigation Icon Elevation Android I am using in my project a bottom navigation view. 
Spring doesn't create distinct beans when @Autowiring with different generic types
How is an Instance linked to Formal Parameter (or inferred) in Anonymous Class Method in Java?
A button should be clicked only two times in a minute, how should I check it?
Attempt to invoke virtual method 'int com.yinkyade.scheduler.model.User.getId()' on a null object reference
Spring jpa can't delete entity because a table has fk to it
Java Maven ClassNotFoundException: com.mysql.cj.jdbc.Driver [duplicate]
For loop is printing out multiple print statements
OpenJDK-11 issue while accessing Jaxb Jars packaged inside war/lib from tomcat/lib Jar We are having a custom utility jar in tomcat/lib folder.
NULL Pointer exception at Cucumber Step Difinition I am using Cucumber BDD with TestNG , however getting Null Pointer Exception at my step.
Using java Boolean class as boolean type in SQL native query
create if statement on each individual line of a textarea object
Why doesn't my 2nd shape appear in my JAVA program using awt?
Query with composite PK collection via spring data (Hibernate JPA)
How to display excel data in J Table in java
How can I generate several api classes with Open Api maven plugin?
Reuse Antlr objects for a new input string (C++ runtime)?
docx4j create numbered and unnumbered list
How to pass LinkedList as value?
Parsing multiple picocli (sub-)commands and a shell
How to send text messages with java using Apple Script and Terminal?
JPA: Why save and save All are working async?
file:///storage/emulated/0/screenshot.png exposed beyond app through ClipData.Item.getUri() I'm trying to set up a share button on my app.
How to handle JSOUP (version 1.12.1) exception java.io.IOException: Too many redirects occurred trying to load URL public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception
Extract texts from a string
Corda bootcamp-cordapp throws java.security.NoSuchAlgorithmException: class configured for Key Pair Generator (provider: BC) cannot be foundI have just cloned the r3corda bootcamp-cordapp from https://github.com/corda/bootcamp-cordapp and followed the setup as mentioned in the Bootcamp video.
Issues with adding user to LDAP server in Java using JNDI I'm having an issue with adding a user to my LDAP server in Java.
How to check if a string has the same characters
Intents keep coming back null
What is the date type standard in Java? [duplicate]
How to use microsoft graph rest apis for one drive etc offline, without user login?
Kafka Streams Scala grouping on 2 fields to get distinct count I have the following Key-Value data in my Kafka topic
Force java.net.Http Url Connection to return GET-response regardless of Http-Status-Code
Invalid HTML when using Remote WebDriver and Internet Explorer 11 in a Windows10 environment (Selenium/Java)
Flux data depends on data later in the stream - Seeking better patterns
Analyze weighted 2d points to figure out likely and unlikely locations for events
Deserialize XML and get value using Java
Error trying to start a JDA Discord Bot on VPS
Daily Rolling File Appender creating and writing to 2 files parallely
Facing issue in extracting value from nested json Array
Generic Iterator<E> behaves differently when a Raw Type of Collection object is passed to method which accepts Generic parameter
Cannot discover Yeelight bulb via my PC, have tried multiple languages and ways but im stuck
In webdriver what are the essential attribute(s) that checkbox must have to check that check box is check or seleted I have the below outer html for a check box.
Issue sending traces from a docker container to a Jaeger docker container running in a VM
Selenium clicks on a wrong link[https://i.stack.imgur.com/ZOP14.png] I am trying to click the submenus of particular menu after the mouse hover onto it.
Converting String to Date is Formatting Year Incorrectly
How to call method from 1st method to 2nd method in a class The number is given and we need to find if it is a square number or triangle number?
Android - How to get Path object of an SVG programatically?
Video uri is saving null in Firestore Basically the problem is that 'imagedata' is null.
How to enable next item in Recycler View?
Requesting the same input if user enters an invalid option
Why does this Spring Boot/Thymeleaf button hide my data or not work at all?
using spring boot and crud how to update list for two class (there are relation between them ) in the same time
Options Menu in Material Search Bar with No Action Bar - not showing the icons of overflow menu items and no action by clicking on item?
Synchronize Recycler View data between two devices?
Android BLE scanning O/S Android 11.