What is the simple way to find the max length of a list in prolog?
Prolog predicate - Same functionality, different results
How to "return" two values in prolog
Return the list of users in prolog
How to tell prolog if the function returns false then skip it?(15 puzzle game)
Difference between variables used to count items in a prolog list
Prolog check if list X has any duplicates
How to make a Battleships game using Prolog?
Directional graph in prolog
how to search a prolog knowledge base using pyswip
Safe sorting of terms
Entity-Relation data model in Prolog
A prolog predicate to split a list into sperate lists ever n elements
Merge two predicates in one - Prolog
Prolog String-Intensive Algorithm Crashes
Prolog predicate without using lists
Inclusion function in prolog for multisets
Age comparsion for Zebra Riddle
Sum within list prolog
How count Dijkstra guards sort executions in Prolog
How to list more than 1 output on prolog query?
Simulating occurs_check=error in SICStus Prolog
Facts VIEW, like a SQL VIEW?
Sorting a list in prolog based on 2 keys
Bracket Abstraction in Prolog
writing a Prolog isSquare function
Extending unification, SICStus-style
Prolog unification broken when argument order is changed
Split a list on an index in Prolog
Prolog beginner ERROR: Out of local stack
SWI-Prolog Editor accepts invalid encoding
Prolog - load 2D array from text file into program
Prolog: Storing result of an operation
Is it possible to write an inconsistent Prolog program using only pure Prolog, cut and `false`?
Prolog as first programming language [closed]
How to use if then else condition in DOSBOX TurboProlog
how can i optimize my regular rectangle checker in prolog?
format output in Prolog
Prolog Printing a Tree
Use assertz while within a clause within swi-prolog
How to use DCG in Prolog
Does SWI-Prolog's `foreach/2` involve `freeze/2`?
Concating 2 lists with third list containing every different order of the elements of the 2 lists
SOOOOO NEWB... Prolog Syntax Error: operator expected
Prolog: Find Minimum again and again until the list is empty
Arguments are not sufficiently instantiated unable to load program
XSB Runtime errors - MulVal
unexpected end_of_file when using read/1
How does the length of list predicate work
Get all the elements of a type Prolog
Function to Reply a specific index value
How to check if a number is even?
Is there a predicate that replaces every anonymous variable, by the number 1? On a list of only zeros and ones and anonymous variables
No 'Access-Control- Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. How to properly serve CORS requests in SWI-Prolog / ClioPatria?
Why do some DCG test cases use assertion( Rest == [])?
How to use the "-" constructor in Prolog?
Counting elements in list ignoring adjacent duplicates
Equivalence of disjunction operator and definition with several rules
Is it possible to preserve variable names when writing and reading term programatically?
What is meant by the following two lines?
Prolog: put recursive predicates into Variable
Abduction of Prolog clauses
Prolog - 'unknown clause' error message when asking for user input when using PIE (Prolog Interface Engine)
How to save even numbers in Prolog?
Prolog search key/value list and output a list of values
How to get rid of Singleton variables errors?
is there any better way to adjust gerrit insert code size base on rule and exclude file path?
How to remove consecutive duplicate atoms in a list
Iteration over relations using a database
Generating a PowerSet and Returning It As A List
PROLOG - check if file exists
Getting the first/second element of a tuple in Prolog
permutation/2 returns no permutation
Find shortest path between two vertices in undirected graph
How to use predicate value inside another predicate
Append always returning false statement
Prolog character string list product, can't figure out recursion
Prolog gives fail during searching for solution, when there is one
Add following numbers to difference list in Prolog
Concat atoms in prolog and exclude quotation marks in the answer
Prolog - creating a new list of the elements from an original list after doubling each value?
Automated query testing against a knowledge base in Prolog
Prolog - Merging 2 lists gives me a list of lists instead of a single list
prolog list insert at any position
Prolog intersection list of lists
Creating a mutually exclusive or in prolog
Prolog With Lists
Prolog - sum of list members
Delete 2nd and 3rd occurrence of an element
Choice points and Redo's in Prolog
How can I write a rule that finds a number using integer/1?
Write a function accepting wrapped constants, but only one level deep
Set size and position of gui elements
Prolog - Working with a list of lists and an element inside one of the sublists
Predicate about a list of lists
how to show a rule in prolog by passing a list with more items
Prolog - Adding elements from a list to another list without duplicates
Prolog: How to create all possible permutations with repetition give a list of objects
Prolog - ERROR: Out of local stack in linux
prolog - DCG transformation
How to express the allDifferent/6 predicate?
Understand a simple recursion in prolog
Creating a web based expert system using Prolog [closed]
Prolog (Sicstus) - nonmember and setof issues
truthtable split in prolog
Write a set of prolog rules that returns a list which contains the larger item in each position in two lists of the same length?
Prolog counting sort
Comparing a variable and a predicate in Prolog
how to convert -> into clauses in prolog
Define the predicate Prolog
How to add CSS (w/ query results) into dynamic reply_html_page in Prolog?
Filtering and modifiying a list in Prolog
Prolog, error with exclusive OR
Prolog - List manipulation, if--then--else, recursion
Prolog: How to calculate depth of tree with an arbitrary amount of subtrees?
Prolog undefined procedure when run in file
How to choose between bagof, setof and findall in Prolog
Prolog - How to check if a list contains a certain item
How write a rule to exit program in prolog?
Prolog read_file_to_string/3
Performance of the built-in Prolog predicate (is)/2
Creating a set from a list in Prolog
Make prolog ignore alternatives, but still backtrack
How to make an operation to every element of a list
Prolog and an Inference engine
Select list out of a list?
Prolog for a DNA sequence project
Command for calling swi-prolog from php
Prolog - Generate Unique Symbol
Can anyone explain why im getting this out put for my prolog Query
Splitting list based on conditional atoms in prolog
How to append numbers in a specific range to a list in prolog
Prolog - family tree
Breadth First Search in Prolog
Prolog: Many families written with lists. Questions answers only for last family writen
Prolog Compilation Error "Undefined reference to predicate"
Prolog find all positions in a list of the minimum element
SWI Prolog usage of agregation
Get longest list as goal in prolog
What is the difference between the keyword is and = in prolog?
How to list all predicates that has an specific atom?
Prolog: working with lists
Numbers in a list smaller than a given number
Adapting csv reading for multiple tables
Reducing Complex DCGs Prolog
What does `\+` signify as an operator in prolog?
How to calculate factorial using prolog
Scheduling tasks with shared resources using logic programming
Prolog predicate with two lists
How to compile picoProlog from source code?
Prolog list unification
Please explain this Turing Machine simulator written in Prolog
Generate a sublist in prolog given first element and length
Remove duplicates and the original from a list [duplicate]
Implementing user-defined arithmetic functions
Recursion through a list in Prolog
how to get the first name of all childs who are born before 1999 in prolog
Sort a list by the second atom in functor
Asymmetric binary relations, my code is not working good
SWI-Prolog conditional inclusion in html//1
Variable occurrence in a list of variables
DCG for file output
Prolog graph path search with cyclic path
Splitting a single list into three in order using Prolog
Prolog defining a male
prolog variable not exist
Why does my replace/2 program always return false?
Prolog flatten accumulator vs hole
How do I find all solutions to a "Generate and Test" task in Prolog?
How to run SWI-Prolog from the command line?
Is it possible to implement some semantic like this in Prolog?
Prolog Mutual recursion
Prolog - Summing numbers
Check if two lists are different in prolog
Comparing list element structures to each other in Prolog
Returning a list of primes in Prolog
How can I read in a filename in Prolog?
The result of Sum is floor(Col + Row + 1) is never an integer and I don't know why
Converting to unambiguous grammar from ambiguous grammar
nth degree representing in prolog
Where should I start learning jekejeke for prolog
Prolog recursivly build list based on dot product
Unifying a number to a list in Prolog
Prolog, testing labeling heuristics
Learning Prolog: solving a crossword scheme
Working with findall and append
Atoms and Integers in List in prolog
Make some specific rules (if-then-else like) in Prolog Programming
Prolog count list elements higher than n
How do I define a binary operation on a set of numbers in prolog?
Writing a factorial-like function (Prolog)
Finding the max in a list - Prolog
Prolog why my function always evaluates to true
How to override a user predicate with a module
Prolog files: What does "run "swipl -f main.pl"" mean?
Parenthesis in j-prolog editor
Prolog/tuprolog, a single line that returns 'The enitire [sic] string could not be read as one term'
How to turn Prolog into preprocessor (kinda m4, gpp)?
Prolog - findall function
Prolog recursive predicate overwriting return values
Finding query for which a prolog program gives incorrect result
Prolog: Create sublist, given two indices
Prolog fetch element in a sublist
Finding root of file and read in Prolog
Binary search tree: min element
Save asserted facts in Prolog
constraint programming, repetition of number in a list, prolog
delay execution in prolog?
Evaluation issue using accumulators in Prolog to evaluate a polynomial
How to generate a list of activable tasks in Prolog?
Prolog search by same field in list
Recursion and lists in Prolog
Prolog - get X possible cards from a deck
Infinite list of terminals – Prolog grammar rules
SWI-Prolog Emacs
Getting an order into predicate resolution
prolog convert numbers into roman numerals
Test to see if all elements of list/variable are true
Prolog query infinite search
How to get variable in Prolog?
Prolog four of a kind poker
How similar are Relational Database Languages and Logic Programming?
Find the shortest path between two nodes in a graph in Prolog
State propagation during bactracking in Prolog
Prolog construction of a list using =../2
setof/3 and NAF
three dependeant parameters in prolog
fit movies on dvd, working but style/code questions
Prolog: Matching One or More Anonymous Variables
Prolog Basic Recursive Division
How to access list permutations in prolog?
Lazy lists in Prolog?
adding elements in prolog
Could you recommend a NLP toolkit in Prolog?
PROLOG: Check if first list contains 3 times less of each element than second list
hangman in prolog
Prolog Insert list as element into another List
Discontiguous predicate warning from GNU Prolog
Filtering elements from a list based on conditions in prolog
Is this code generated by expanding a Prolog DCG tail-recursive?
Input stream - closing
Set parameters dynamically in Prolog
moving through a list
prolog: subsets of length k
Lists within lists in prolog
sign propagation algorithm in prolog
prolog problem; displaying same rank universities
who knows algorithm about stones and backpack?
prolog Existance error: procedure does not exist
Matching Multiple Lists
Programming deontic logic
What is more interesting or powerful: Curry, Mercury or Lambda-Prolog?
How to find differences in lists in prolog and determine if the lists are the same (same elements but doesnt have to have the same order)
What AI topic should i pick for my class project?
Complexity in Prolog programs?
Prolog =:= operator
Need help programming a list in Prolog
What is the simple way to find the max length of a list in prolog?
Prolog combining predicates to d a search
how do i flatten a complicate list in prolog?
Writing a math function in Prolog
Prolog Problem. I need help to solve this issue
How do i get all combination in prolog?
What minimal change to my code would make it preserve logical purity?
I need to replace findall function with recursion in prolog [closed]
how can i retreive information from nested list prolog
Get list of students who have taken a specific course
How to search for a member in a 2-3 tree
Prolog: How many prime numbers are in input list in range <2,20>
Prolog Wumpus World Finding a path in an unknown X by X world
Prolog list is odd | even
Variable undeclared
How to get all elements in a nested list where the first element of each list is a particular number?
Count each element occurence in list in prolog?
how do i delete char type in list in prolog?
Prolog User input data
Zebra problem with modifications in prolog
How can i filter a list by 2 conditions?
Returning multiple values from a Prolog list
Find smallest list under conditions
How do i remove reverse dulpicate list from a list in prolog?
knowledgment unification in prolog
Removing duplicates in lists within a list
Prolog problems {lists}
How to compare two lists in Prolog?
Removing duplicates from list and returning modified list prolog
how do i sum any elements in the list of lists and equal to 5 in prolog?
Creating a predicate that confirms if each element in a set of list are unique [closed]
Syntax error: Operator expected in Prolog [closed]
Prolog: Cast term into string?
How can I return a list of numbers from a given list that mod 0 a target number?
Prolog Sorting a List with each position having two elements
How can I find all the valid divisors (AKA A%B == 0) of a number?
describe a predicate for consultation with this base to get exactly the same list
RecallNumber in Aleph mode declarations
How can I create a list of factors of a number?
How can I generate a list of numbers in between two parameters?
Turn List into number, increment the number, and then turn the number into a list
prolog store a list in a variable
Prolog - Check if second list has all even numbers from the first list
pick up even numbers from a list
Prolog divisors
Getting longest subsequence of even numbers in a list with Prolog
Access to a number and a vector of an String in Prolog
Longest sequence of even numbers in a list with prolog
prolog how does a built in predicate get an existence_error?
Prolog, predicate returns the correct result, but also false?
Implementing Reg. expression in prolog
Prolog. How to return a list of integers between a range
Insert zeros in a list on Prolog
listsum(L, S) succeeds iff L is a list of consecutive integers which must start at 1 and S is the sum of that list
Delete from a list the non-duplicated items
(gnu) Prolog statement with "or" simple example
Even and odd elements from list and count elements up to specific index in list, but shows error
Prolog is giving random numbers instead of string in read write command
How i can connect Prolog and PyQT5
getting too many arguments error in prolog
how do I solve an error in asking question in prolog?
Incorrect output when trying to query in a depth first search implementation for prolog
Incrementing datetime by second
Unfulfillable distribution with prioritization
Reverse Logic programme
Evaluate rules in prolog
Compare two solution in a prolog call
Prolog predicate (division) that calculate the expression
LCM of list PROLOG
prolog empty list error when reversing a list
tau prolog existence_error on tutorial example
How does unification algorithm actually work?
What does _ (Underscore) mean in this context in Prolog Amzi
In SWI Prolog, how can I prevent the interpreter from entering interactive mode during an error?
Why does SWI-Prolog fail when mentioning a predicate without any facts in a rule?
Find set of solutions and terminate in SWI-Prolog?
How to translate "one of the ends" of a list in Prolog?
Prolog factorial recursion, How does it work?
How to add a time limit to find object in prolog game?
Reverse List without duplicates ( convert it into Set ) -> Prolog
Swiplserver: solving time problem wih much queries on multiprocessing application
how to fix : ERROR: Unknown procedure: get_brother/0 (DWIM could not correct goal)
my function in prolog doesn't give the expected output
Check two consecutives parameters in prolog
Argument is not instantiated, need it to start at zero but also be able to change it
Prolog: Trying to determine if a person is a citizen of a certain country
How to have a fact have multiple values in prolog?
How to check place value of each digit in prolog?
How to Escape Double Quotes on Prolog Web Server
Filter tuple facts to new list
Send list from Python to Prolog PySwip
I need some ideea with a program in prolog with list
How to add temporal variables to first-order logic formulas?
Is it possible to write a prolog interpreter that avoids infinite recursion?
SWI-Prolog reading a file for single digit numbers and adding them together
Prolog unify List variables
Divide list into sublists with specific sizes
Define predicate from following the rules Prolog
Delete items that occur an odd number of times in a list
Performance Shortest path in GNU PROLOG
What's the default SWI-Prolog font?
How to query to sum facts in prolog?
How to solve this puzzle using prolog?
How to solve this puzzle with swiprolog?
Package installation from git in SWI prolog
How can I define Prolog rule to achieve bidirectional query?
How to write a Prolog solver to solve this logic problem?
sing recursion method and returning a list in Prolog
I am getting an error in prolog in vs code please check
prolog query question in water and river decision by input a point with a shortest way
Understanding Prolog exercise (removes all duplicates from a list)
Forward chaining in prolog with rules about lists
SWI-Prolog stand alone executable
Loading tau-prolog.js-packages in runtime?
shortest path in GNU PROLOG
Print Answer using Facts
Implement countall in prolog
error E;Test_Goal, pos: 910, 505 TypeError: Invalid variable type for this position in prolog
Depth First Search in Prolog
Tabling in Prolog, when are values stored?
Forward chaining in Prolog, problem with multiple rules
One common hobby between two persons in Prolog
How can I apply Menu functionalities to buttons in WIN-PROLOG,
SWI Prolog - Combining elements from two lists into pairs
Can the unification algorithm in Prolog recurse infinitely?
Is my Prolog Code with the following Diagram and Truth Table correct?
Python: convert dictionary from swiplserver
How can I implement the below problem in prolog?
SWIPL PROLOG as JSON Query
Prolog list exercise
Find the exit to the labyrinth
spilt list into to positive and negative lists in visual prolog
Why is my prolog program stucked in endless recursion
Convert FOPL expression to prolog
How to determine if two propositional formulas are equivalent in Prolog?
DCG chain from facts, including "not seen before" condition
Why is the variable NewBoard not being assigned?
Prolog: if it isn't true continue to execute the program
How does the predicate i/4 function in Prolog
How to add an element to a list in prolog
Why is my function returning a negative value?
Implementation of forward chaining in prolog (SWI-Prolog)
List_subset_of_list predicate with choice points?
How to increment a variable during a recursion in Prolog?
Prolog: Check if dictionary has special member
Give false if the element is an internal representation of a variable name in prolog
How to write the output from a list with only atoms for win-prolog translator?
Stop recursively does not work in prolog ("x" must hold one character)
solving of equations by the Euler method in Prolog
How to solve this exercise on Prolog?
Prolog: Initialize predicate variables connected with operators correctly
Can't get all result of query in prolog
Prolog - get the greatest perimeter of triangles drawn with coordinates
Prolog maplist on inner term?
Best Practices for Prolog predicates definition
Merging 2 lists into a third but in pairs
Manipulating lists through findall in prolog
How do I get the index of a number in a list in Prolog?
Creating a predicate that satisfy a specific combinations
Prolog algorithm works for 4x4 but not for higher dimensions
How to delete entry from rdf file in prolog
define predicate prolog by requirements
Create rules from text Prolog
create rules from sentence prolog
Introducing non-ground vars into a Prolog query for a custom DSL query language
uncaught exception: error(instantiation_error,(is)/2)
Restrict search in Prolog - Magic Sqare
phrase_from_file and lazy_input
Invert atoms from list to integers - Prolog
How can I make this code asks each question once?
Using NOT in Pytholog
Prolog: Predicate that checks yes \= yes outputs yes
Can't check equality with unknowns in Prolog
Prolog map coloring (4 colors map) code explanation
How can I fix sandbox error on SWI-Prolog
How using upcase_atom/2 in Prolog?
How to link constant with variable by assert?
Python - dictionary with propositions (replace string values)
Prolog Expert System (Animal Identification System)
What is Prolog saying about an uninstantiated variable?
Rewrite the definition in order to avoid the recursive call
Python: swiplserver load prolog file
Python: pyswip output returns Atom and Functor
Prolog: aStar method for maximization (how to use estimative??)
How do I combine rules and facts from a PROLOG program into a list?
Example of pass by reference in Prolog
When I try to include ggplot library in Prolog, it keeps on giving me syntax error
Drop out the N-th element from a list and display its value in a variable
Suffix of a list in prolog
Comparing a list of integers with a number prolog
Prolog company/employee scheduling problem
Prolog concatenate atoms
Check if network graph is a clique prolog
Swi-prolog breaks on order check
Prolog: Check if list of tuples is a function
Issue in win-prolog Recursion for Transit system - first station never shows up
How can I assign variable X to only one thing in Prolog
How to you list Prolog queries and then print each query and its result(s) programmatically?
mergesort in prolog - infinite recursion?
SWI Prolog: avoiding name clashes between builtin predicates and dynamic predicates
Is there a better way for making a list of ancestors in this program?
Prolog rule which replaces with 0 every negative number from a list
Alternative to maplist() without commas or brackets
how to prove the goal with inference rules?
How to extract all ancestors from family predicate?
All initial segments of a list in Prolog
Prolog findall solutions within time limit
Trouble with this Prolog Rule
Prolog: Predicate that combines the elements in a list with same value
Separate list from a list Prolog
Collect leaves in general tree
Prolog program to enumerate all possible solution over a countable set
non tail recursion sublist from list
PYSWIP not working in pyinstaller executable
I ran the program as instructed in the book but it didn't work, error : unknown procedure
Prolog number of items which contain woman
Sublist from list
Find all paths between nodes in an undirected graph
How can I improve error reporting using PlUnit?
Why do I need to duplicate my Prolog predicates in order to make my program work?
How to define a brotherhood relationship and write a query that gives every uncle of a person X in the knowledge base An uncle X
find all pair of grandfather relationships using prolog
Python: Is there a way a swipl query results in value true not {}?
How to append an element to a list in a forall?
Compare user input to defined predicate
Tau Prolog - how to convert a prolog list into a JavaScript array
Prolog - Finding the path between nodes
Find all possible copmbinations from prolog database lists
How to deal with [a,b|c] format lists?
Prolog: recursion is not working properly
Prolog - Add a special character to every element of a list
Representing truth regarding beliefs in prolog
why do I get a "undefined subroutine" when I execute in prolog?
How to transform data structures in Prolog using multiple rules, declaratively
Clauses in (lambda)prolog starting with a cut
Prolog how to get adjacent numbers in rule
SWI-Prolog, Read the file and sum the numbers in the file
Additional check in Prolog
Left associative evaluation of a right recursive grammar in Prolog
Prolog behaving awkwardly
How do I assign return variable in prolog?
Antlr grun error - no viable alternative input at
A program that displays the number of all descendants of this person's family tree
Need help programming a list in Prolog
Prolog: How do I remove symmetrical values in predicates
Running Prolog in Eclipse (Mac)
Prolog keeps going to initial state after recursion
How to code a program in prolog based like this
How to program a list in prolog that has n number of elements
Why Prolog can't see the obvious answer?
How to code a program in prolog, that does comparison on graphs
How to code a prolog program that has same amount of elements
Need help for programming a list in prolog
Planning with Numerical Values and PROLOG
What do these predicates do in Prolog
Swap last two elements of a list in Prolog
How to program with prolog using lists for reversing
Why doesn't it calculate the length of the string in Prolog?
I want to write some message when the result is 'no' in gnu prolog
How to program in Prolog a function that does operations on lists
Could not derive which predicate may be called
How to read lines from a file in Prolog
Why is this CLP(FD) constraint solving slowly and how do I debug it?
How to make a knowledge Representation in prolog
Prolog banana&monkey with Depth First Search and Depth First Search with Limit
PROLOG, Is it possible to collect all result from a predicate to a list, without using built in predicates, such as bagof or findall
Use expand_term/2 with file for dcg translation
Tool for drawing SLD trees in Prolog
Using prolog without the pl file
Checking IP like address list with Prolog
Working with nested lists in Prolog (not SWI-Prolog)
How to code a prolog program that does some operations on list
Space-efficient reading of chars in canonical form
Prolog lists inside the lists
SWI Prolog list subtract gives error: Out of local stack
How to find direct path between two nodes in a graph in Prolog?
Write a predicate called rlen(X,N) to be true when N counts the total number of occurrences of atoms in the list X
Order of instructions and recursion in Prolog
Graph representations in Prolog
Check if list is made up by numbers only - Prolog
Find all paths and sum the length of each path in the graph
prolog: X > Y breaks the cycle
The Grandma Birthday Puzzle in CLP(FD)
this error is faced me in writing in prolog language --- (Syntax error: Operator expected ) in the if statement
Building a link structure recursively in Prolog
Define a DCG in Prolog for bit strings practice problem
How can I prevent prolog from backtracking and deleting my list?
What is the role of cut at the base case?
How to do recursion in a L-system inspired rewrite System, without DCG
ERROR: Arithmetic: `b/0' is not a function
How does declaring variables in swi prolog work?
Showing Swi-prolog backtrace?
Prolog check if list X has any duplicates
Understanding Eliza Chatbot in prolog
Understanding Eliza Chatbot in prolog
How to add all positive numbers in prolog
How to read a list inside a fact?
How to count the number of words in a file in Prolog
How can I print the contents of a list stored in database, one by one?
Prolog Pure Implementation of findall
Reversing matrix rows in Prolog
Constraint Handling Rules in SWI Prolog: The `neq` constraint doesn't work
How to sort a list in prolog
Working with a file in Prolog(reading from file and counting words in lines)
Is this possible in prolog?
Why does not it run the program in SWI-prolog
Extract other tuple member in Prolog
Triangular matrices in Prolog
How to write Predicate to find X in list and make second list =X+first list
Subroutines as parameters in Prolog
How to make a non-repetitive list of factors in PROLOG
Logical task. Why is my code giving the wrong result?
Evaluating a polynomial in prolog
Constraint Handling Rules in SWI Prolog: What's the order of puting a constraint to the store?
Plan a route in prolog without using a list
Prolog: Resolvent/Resolution solver and recursion
Maze problem solving with iterative deepening in PROLOG
Is there always an accumulator to replace append/3? [SOLVED]
Find non overlapping times
Write Prolog DCG for the language
Prolog decimal number to list of numbers
Prolog Can't get to the predicate
How to write rule(s) that selects specific facts in Prolog
How to construct pair of items on two lists using recursion in prolog
Prolog seemingly ending recursive call without going back up
How to print this in one line statement in Prolog
convert list of adjacencies to recursive format
swi-ProLog Finding all possible starting nodes which can arrive specific ending node
how to print all nodes from a particular node
Return a list that only includes duplicate elements
Prolog program to determine if two numbers are amicable
How to return true under the condition another predicate is false
Given a list of lists in Prolog, how to apply a clause on each list?
What is committed-choice logic programming language?
How can I find a list of nodes that can reach a common destination in Prolog
How to convert user input into a reusable predicate in gnu prolog?
PROLOG: Graph path with minimum connections
Writing a function/method containing conditionals in prolog
Loop through, return true if a function passes
Coloring fields in PROLOG
Call a backend function from flask web app getting access violation for file open function
SWI Prolog syntax need to write more than one word in term
PROLOG: longest path in graph
Removing consecutive elements from a list in Prolog
prolog returns value twice
Slicing the list in prolog between two indexes
Prolog, a list of the most common list items
Adding element to beginning of list, without creating a new list
Prolog – How to recursively generate all combinations of two lists as a two-dimensional array
Multiplying matrices in Prolog
How to concatenate 3 lists in Prolog without using append
Prolog FindAll with a range of particular values
Extract a column from a matrix (list of lists) in prolog
How can I save and load data files in Prolog?
Prolog recursion - why do I need to declare an extra variable
Prolog - Einstein's Riddle without using lists [duplicate]
PROLOG- Predicate that prevents doctor from having more than 8 appointments per day
How to write gnom sort in prolog?
New to Prolog - procedure `temp(A)' does not exist Reachable from: weather(A) go
Flattening lists in Prolog [duplicate]
Prolog: Chaining multiple rules
Accessing the return values of a complex variable in prolog
How To Write travel/3 into path/2
How to define 'as long as' in prolog?
return first two element and last two element from the list
Simplify Expressions in Prolog With unknown variables
How can i change the root from Query Input? (Programming Logic)
Prolog: I need to loop through all the "items" in my "Facts" database, but just take the first one and finish
I need to find pairs of shows that started in the same year in prolog
return list with a list as parameter
print_term writing to a file in PROLOG
How to print all females in prolog if my facts only contains male property
Unexpected result of the rule
Creating Binary Tree in Prolog
is there any way to know the index of an element in a list in prolog?
Rules in prolog which in harmony with these natural language
how can I query the integers between two values by creating a list of those integers in Prolog.?
Increment a variable by constant in recursive rules in prolog
Rule in prolog to define whether an atom (which in this case a name) is the oldest son or not?
chess boundaries that set by pieces, in Prolog
Prolog - factorial using predicates [duplicate]
How do I print dynamic/1 in Prolog
Prolog console crashing the moment I run my script
Prolog chess pieces movements
finding the number of solutions in a list on prolog
How to use an fd solver to determine which elements of a list can sum to a given number?
Filter the numeric elements based on target value in Prolog
How can I complete the implementation of parser for this mini prolog in haskell?
Using a Prolog predicate by providing the output and receiving the input [duplicate]
How to eliminate from a list [b,a] if already exist [a,b]
Directional graph in prolog
Replacing elements in matrix in prolog
Replacing elements in matrix in prolog
Prolog syntax error: . or operator expected after expression 1 error(s) compilation failed
write a notSortedDescending function in prolog
Prolog to Datalog code conversion that uses lists
Create Prolog 2d list filled with 0
Prolog - Filter list with only even numbers [duplicate]
Most general query only finding one solution for each number of leaves of tree N in Exercize 3.5 from Learn Prolog Now
I am trying to create a search space for the 7 ball question in prolog
Prolog - Multiply the even elements of a list by a number (F)
Prolog. Function call, add brackets to output
How can i get a sublist of list in Prolog?
Predicate order change causes infinite loop
How to prune wrong answers? Is my code wrong?
Prolog. Comparing elements in a list
A prolog program for identifying terms of the first order logic
I'm trying to remove a single occurrence of an element in a list
Tree methods going on infinite loop
prolog family tree locating cousins
Split a list in prolog to atoms and integers
Returning True if intersection is empty and False otherwise
sum of setof in prolog
Prolog: How to create all possible combinations without repetitions
Prolog query not terminating
CLPFD ins operator yields not sufficiently instantiated error
How to pull one list out of one list in prolog?
Beginner Prolog, How to write transtive relation?
Prolog: Redirect system output
Pythagorean theorem for calculating distance between two points. Prolog
Prolog last element function returns whole list
Unknown procedure card/2 in knights and knaves puzzle
How do I write a predicate that converts terms to lists?
Calculating syntactic complexity of a prolog predicate
Recursive prolog： Compare the elements of the first two lists less than or equal to the third list
Intersection of two lists with duplicate elements
Moving within a list, by giving the possible moves. Prolog
Prolog saying if something in a list (in this case grid/1) is white. Prolog
How do I solve Free variable error in Turbo Prolog?
Pascal's triangle in prolog with recursion and without cuts
How to print prolog list variable's output on separate lines?
Splitting a list into two Separate lists
My override using inheritance in Prolog is inheriting the wrong property ? why?
Prolog average of a list
Prolog: zip 2 lists into one
warning: singleton variables error message in Prolog
PROLOG family tree: how can I output all the siblings and cousins?
How to compile a prolog question correctly?
How do you solve Russian nesting dolls question with prolog?
Find substrings of certain length
LF Framework to solve Data Science Issue
Prolog predicate return true and false
Prolog to check if list is sorted (ascending or descending)
Prolog for sets (lists)
How to ask prolog if there's only one logical answer
Prolog, unknown argument solving
Check if a country reaches the threshold
Why is the Prolog ',' operator right associative, while it is processed from left to right
There is no Zero in Mathematics Digits Riddle
Combinations of two lists where same element can't be in matching position
Draw stars Prolog up to N: draws one line too less
swipl gives an error on encountering variables in lists
Prolog - Cleaner way to define a rule
Prolog query :- true, fail; not true, not fail; true, not fail
Prolog, I want to get 2 different values from list and all the others to another list
Prolog How to use get_code in a pl file
I want to make a filtered list out of a existing list in prolog
Is there a Prolog name for atom/1 or stream/1 etc (SWI-Prolog)
Why does Prolog generate additional variables while querying?
How to see the value of a variable during prolog trace?
Prolog replace every second item in list
How do I translate Prolog's cuts to Curry?
PROLOG exercise with constraints
How to read large Prolog files in ECLiPSe?
Recursively implementation of squares/2
Prolog: How to get a copy of the original list in a recursion
Predicate in Prolog, predicate works only for numbers
How bootstrap setarg_with_occurs_check/3 in Prolog?
Trace how Prolog finds result for query
Prolog - Unification of complex terms
Compiling Prolog to exe file
List of positive elements
Prolog - Save List into something like an atom?
Prolog - how to check if an element of a list occurs in a nested list of fix format
How to implement list item deletion for all argument modes?
How to implement the Fibonacci sequence in successor arithmetics for all argument modes?
How to implement the factorial sequence in successor arithmetics for all argument modes?
What is the difference between variables A and _A in Prolog?
How to convert from tuples_in/2 in SWI-Prolog to fd_relation/2 in GNU Prolog?
Prolog write predicate that decrements all elements of a list of integers
Term expansion before compiling in GNU Prolog
Boolean guard in PROLOG
Convert plain JSON to SWI-Prolog Dict
How to check all conditions in prolog?
How to fix this permutation sort?
Solver: OR-Tools or clingo(ASP) model for "simple" logical problem
Replicating findall in Prolog
Prolog: P-12: Ninety-Nine Prolog Problems (Modified)
Handle multiple choise answer in expert system prolog
Safe sorting of terms
Probabilistic programming : reifying distributions and stuff?
prolog what are theses unspecified arguments called and how do they function?
Prolog, create a predicate that grab 3 diagonal values from 3 lists
How to write a prolog program to print between a given range?
How do I bag elements of tuples in Prolog lists
Problems with prolog list matching
Should the first and second arguments be swapped in a rule defining addition?
How to fix this list reversal?
Prolog Program Trace in List
How to selectively run a goal in a clause
How to fix this recursive multiplication?
Logtalk test returning failed when it passes under SWI interpreter
How to write this DCG more elegantly?
representing large binary vector as problog fact/rule
how to create a stand-alone swi-plog executable file?
Error org.jpl7.JPLException: unsupported blob type passed from Prolog
How to fix this recursive addition?
Using Logtalk Timeout function for Testing SWI Prolog Files
How to specify ciao language mode for compilation
Understanding the implementation of label/5 in clpfd
maplist applies only on the first list of list-of-lists?
Using a Bash Script To Automate Testing of A Prolog File
Natural Language processing with prolog error
Parsing tagged data-string, instead of pure-string
Simple Constraint Logic Programming sample CLP(Q) gives error in Prolog
Predicate annotations
Prolog programing convert from python code
Prolog ask a question and resolve by dependency comprehension question
Remove meta from reply_html_page
Program decomposition and lazy_findall
Functional patterns in Prolog
Calculating List of positive numbers of a given list in Prolog
nested lists in prolog
Can I restore a mongo db from within mongo shell?
Relationship between not found, dif, and \+
Prolog "switch" statement
Branch and bound without assert / retract
Finding shortest path in water jugs problem
CLPFD and recursive formulations
Prolog Filter out array of numbers
Recursion on Prolog [duplicate]
Prolog. I can't mix two lists
GCD termination properties
Solving Euler 4 with CLP
How to return the list that contains a certain element in Prolog?
Prolog basic exercise with lists gives stack size error
CLPFD "OR" condition in domain declaration
How to sum the results without findall
Finding disconnected subgraphs in Prolog
Efficient Fibonacci in Prolog
Monkey and banana solution doesn't stop after grabbing the banana (Prolog)
prolog f(X) :- X==[]
Testing a too general program
How to collect all the results
converting a list into an integer in prolog?
Prolog Trying to Print But Get Errror
Prolog: How to get the number of output?
Prolog: findall but to save only some solutions
Swi-Prolog: How to write a descendant predicate?
Prolog beginner question about scheduling and assigning groups
How to use Prolog's foreach/2 loop
Creating second list with increment from other list in prolog
Prolog: Why did the output displayed the same number of output based on the number of kids they have
Failling to obtain all the solutions [findall + minimal solutions]
Creating a tail recursive drop function in Prolog
Prolog Nested Query
Prolog cut and fail not working as expected
Why is my Prolog exercise not trying other solutions?
What is \= in Swi-Prolog
Prolog :Make my predicate return all possible solutions
Path search in a tree from generic start and end nodes using prolog
Has anybody got "java.net.SocketException: Connection reset" when using Java-Prolog Connector
How can i automate in SWI Prolog the download of a file manually resulting from an Ajax script?
Problem with files using prolog (Existence error)
Prolog - How can I return a list where each element appears only once?
Using list name as nth0 argument in prolog
Finding minimal maximum share
How to split a list into list of list by delimiter in Prolog
How does this Zebra solution in prolog work?
Prolog - Finding the Nth Fibonacci number using accumulators
Concat a List of Strings with additional Strings in between
Can not get first node in the visited nodes of prolog graph traversal
Prolog: How can I set "gtrace" correctly in Visual Studio Code?
Prolog existence_error from book example
Number from a string of numbers-prolog
Trying to write a code in Prolog that I enter a list that contains Strings and Numbers and I want to get the maximum Number between them
Using maplist with a lambda that does not have a body?
Prolog - Infinite loop with very basic rule definition
Prolog dynamic predict do not remember value
Swi Prolog: how to count the number of elements by using rules (not query)
Combining two facts via a boolean OR in Gnu Prolog
Prolog: existentially quantifying
Log Base 2 Prolog
Prolog pythagorean triplet
Get all data at once - Select String in odbc query with MySQL and SWI Prolog
How to convert a string to a single-element list?
How to list all people that have a specific number of descendants in prolog?
Prolog program to find odd values from a tree that repeat twice in another tree
Prolog: a list of characters <=> list of character list
How prolog is capable to perform large computational operations recursively so fast? like 10000 factorial
Problem with appending element using difference lists in Prolog
Why is exporting fixity declarations a "bad idea"?
How to return once with prolog query?
Prolog Flow Free solver
Matrix multiplication using Prolog arrays
implement crossroads logic in prolog
Convert Binary to decimal predicate
Prolog simple backtracking
Tree tournament in prolog
Getting data from a direct mapped cache in prolog
How could I add a sentence (rule) in a KB from python using pyswip
Prolog: consider clauses from a dynamic module when calling a predicate
Prolog predicate to split an array
Swap function in prolog, infinite loop
Prolog: Find the number of nodes for levels in binary tree
I can't call a predicate recursively in SWI-Prolog
What is a Deductive Database?
PROLOG - Get a list of all the rules an entity verifies
Heuristic function prolog
The Prolog code of the predicate intersperses an element on the n position of a list
Searching for groups of objects given a reduction function
Prolog apply predicate to list elements with maplist
Prolog - How would I recursively build a list?
ECLiPSe CLP - TSP with Time WIndow. How do i calculate the cost?
Negation of absent fact in prolog
End recursion in Prolog
Prolog: All digit Combinations
prolog functions, prolog weights, prolog projects
Prolog: How to write a predicate that calculates an integral?
Display Last Element in List Prolog
How to get a specific value from a database?
GNU Prolog : assert that list is ordered based on another list
How can I update an specific value in prolog given an id?
Simple Chatbot in Prolog - translate python to prolog
Prolog: Why do I keep getting a operator expected error, how can I fix this?
Am I using "cut" too much?
Not clear on how this Prolog depth first search (DFS) method code works
Prolog for eight puzzle
Prolog procedure does not exist (cant run rules in prolog)
Prolog comparing and returning true or false conditionally
prolog comparing floating point numbers in a list
How to check if a number is power of 2
How to input 5 numbers and determine the order? SWI-PROLOG
Store shell output in variable
Unexpected error when am trying to print a simple number in prolog
How do I use rule in another rule in prolog
Listing all possible solutions Prolog
Count number of stations directly connected to a given station using prolog(metro stations)
swipl - prolog put all members to list
[Prolog]. How do I concat/append results of a simple function?
Comparing elements from two lists of different sizes
Predicate concat in Prolog
ERROR: Unknown procedure: dups2/2 (DWIM could not correct goal)
prolog code to solve 8 puzzle problem with backtracking:
Prolog: what is difference between, for example, X is 3 and 3 is X?
How do i write a rule in prolog called countIt?
change the output in Prolog - for detecting covid symptoms
Count the number of a specific object element in Prolog
Run Prolog queries within prolog file and store the result in a txt file
Method that counts the number of occurs in one list in Prolog
Problem with Prolog list recursion keeps returning syntax error operator expected
How to define a Regex/Regular Expression and implementing it through Prolog as automata?
Finding a pattern in a list, prolog
Writing a prolog star/1 program
Meta-predicate that receives a list of goals as input
Why SWI-Prolog doesn't display 'false' when there aren't any more results to show
Prolog: How to make a bagof fail in the middle of execution
Make a list as the consecutive union of two lists
Prolog "findall/3" does not return a list
SWI-prolog pure logic programming modules fail
Prolog List Decision making
Getting the shortest list from a list of lists
prolog language list division
Using maplist/2,3,4
list of repetitions of another list given the number of repetitions
How to instantiate Y for a digit-counting predicate?
Prolog Conversion of generating solution to constraint?
What exactly is the vertical slash function in PROLOG? Is it an operator?
Recursive function for going through digits not progressing
constrain list length in CLP (Prolog)
XSB not reading all rules
Probable infinite recursion (cycle): with DCG parsing rule
Graph Coloring with CLP(FD)
Simultaneously visit solutions to two or more backtrackable predicates
Learning Prolog : solving crossword problem in prolog
List of characters between two parenthesis plus a number
Concatenation of two lists in a third one
How to create an arbitary variable in Prolog
Generate lists with independent variables in Prolog
Prolog simple rules
Prolog error after loading the same file an even number of times?
return values higher than a number in prolog
Unexpected result with a system of (in)equations in Prolog
Prolog: SLICE from list, why it fails so quickly?
Prolog Analogy IQ Test Unexpected token exception
Handle existential variable in the head of rules
Understanding constraints in Prolog
How to accept k terms in a prolog rule?
Prolog predicate to unzip lists
Prolog : last element
How to write a rule that validates an integer with or without a sign?
Is there a function that checks if a variable is a member of a list without unifying it?
How to create an executable file to a GNU-Prolog program?
Portable way to change Prolog atom JSON escaping
how to detect a list of lists in Prolog?
prolog add two list using successor notation
i am implementing logic gates in prolog but having this error [duplicate]
Set difference of two compatible lists in Prolog
prolog - counting node in a binary tree
Prolog backtracking position
First-order logic and automated theorem proving
Prolog Binary Numbers of length N
Zipwith application in prolog
Prolog indexOf function
prolog predicate that adds 2 numbers in successive notation and getting the result in Z also in successive notation
Prolog: How to get the vertex with distance = n?
Infinite recursion when trying to build a resolution solver in prolog in prolog
Prolog- How to append elements to end of list
Hi everyone, I'm trying to code this formula in prolog, any help is appreciated :)
I am stuck with finding recursive case for a prolog code
Syntax error when trying to add secondary connectives in prolog
Prolog - Assign value instead of evaluating it
String to List Interpreter in List Prolog stuck on 2 items
How to Return the desired lists from List of Lists in Prolog
Resolution solver in prolog
Convert numbers to list in Prolog?
List Manipulation prolog
Complexity of counting matching elements in two sequences using `library(aggregate)`
How to make a if statement so this prolog code can sen a message when there is a conflict int the n coloring problem
Prolog : Find the kth element of this list : What's the difference between those 2 implementations?
Prolog Eliza implementation - Loops and Recursion
how to define and check parameters in Prolog
a search word (W) in the dictionary in prolog
Defining a graph in prolog and checking a list with edges
Prolog pathfinder
How to check order in prolog?
How to count coincidences on each character of two large strings without triggering the Out of Local Stack exception?
Is it possible to use ";" in a query in SWI-Prolog?
Prolog: 'Hello world' resulting in existence_error. Have checked file paths with no success
Is there a more efficient way to manage large data than using facts?
Why do both predicates get evaluated?
How to limit depths structures in prolog
Graphs in Prolog programming
Prolog predicate without using lists
How can I split a prolog list into two separate ones?
How can I split a prolog list into two separate ones?
Sentences to Prolog conversion
Conducting a tournament between teams and summing up the results of the tournament
Stack limit exceeded prolog with append
Prolog double every other number in list
Writting grammar in prolog and can't get it to work correctly
Remove Duplicates while retaining order, Prolog
How to embed SWI-Prolog in a Unity3D project
What is the right error for corner cases of datetime conversion?
Prolog argument mode indicator causes output false
Eclipse Prolog: How to make a program that solves boolean expressions (replace variables so that the expression is true)
Prolog: maplist (Vars in 1..9) on every elements except for the first row and first column in a matrix. Do not want two predicates
How do you know if the elements of a list are odd or even?
Prolog counting
Prolog: update element of list
Flattening a tree in linear time using Prolog
Combine two lists without duplicates prolog
Prolog connection between 2 in a family tree
Prolog - Parser Fails when using Unary Minus
PROLOG : Given a number X, find all multiples of 4 less or equal than X
Read files in Prolog
How can I bind the same variables together in prolog
Multiple variables in list and checking if list contains variable. Prolog
Check if list is the reverse of the other list in prolog
Prolog - list of range of values, not including range
Compressing a list in prolog with run length encoding
Prolog: Return list of Y from facts where X = x
How can I compare items in a Prolog database?
Eclipse-Prolog : Load a interpreter
is there a more succint way to evaluate something explicitly in prolog?
Prolog - Find second and second last elements in list
How to remove first n lines or last n lines from .txt file with SWI Prolog?
Encoding program in prolog
Outputting Integers Greater than a given number in Prolog
Prolog: combined predicate failed
creating a list from enumerated facts in prolog
Prolog - Reading through a list
Classifying a number as big, medium, or small using prolog?
Prolog menu prompt doesn't print properly
Partition function P in Picat
What is a combinator in Prolog?
Prolog: generate solution according to the original list
How to generate lists of fresh variables in Mercury like I can in Prolog?
Multiplication of all nodes in a binary tree
Prolog - A simple program that gets stuck (seems to go into infinite loop)
SWI Prolog: How to append the result of subtracting two lists to the original list
Use Prolog to find the a list of employees that work in a specific company
Difference function in prolog for multisets
Understanding prolog better
Prolog: Why doesn't this predicate fail with an empty list passed as an argument
Writing a union operation in prolog for multisets
Prolog: Appending to a list while reusing the same list(out of local stack error)
Prolog grandparent relathionship
Understanding prolog better
Implement multiset using lists in prolog
I wonder if I can use Prolog to do resolution reasoning
How can I display output from Prolog file to the Python QDialog text area?
prolog check uneven occurence of an element in a list
http_read_data(Request, Data, []) post data to prolog
finding players in the same the team in prolog
Prolog: decompose number into its digits
packages\pyswip\core.py", line 208, in _findSwiplWin match = pattern.match(ret[-1]) IndexError: list index out of range
How to combine all non numbers into a list in Prolog?
Delete all spaces in list while always returning true?
Brother In Law Prolog
How to have a variable tested on its occurrences?
Wall follower algorithm in Prolog
Beginner Prolog question - comparison always returns false
prolog: issue with undirected graph: path to one direction works, but infinite loop for the other direction
Descending List From N to 1
common_suffix/4 Prolog
Prolog - Tell if abs value of max is greater then abs value of min in list of integers
Prolog - Matrix N by N with elements being [1,...,N^2]
Find people who have children in common and form couples
Prolog: How to build a list from independant elements inside a recursive predicate
Prolog: Finding the cheapest combination of N facts
How to work out the sum of an expression using a list (Prolog)
What does construction s() stand for in Prolog?
Finding max, need all elements of list to be absolute value
How to use normal clauses converted from DCG Prolog one?
Prolog: Filtering a list of goals and keeping the successful goals
How does swipl manage term memory?
Prolog: Return a list of facts from a list of atoms
Prolog: Why is this predicate showing up as true?
Prolog number of nodes at a given depth in a tree
How to filter a list in Prolog with multiple conditions?
How to return difference in years in Prolog?
How to make requests to a tcp socket and handle response in SWI Prolog?
Finding most occurrences in set of prolog rules
Program in SWI-Prolog
What do I miss in my compare list prolog program?
Prolog singleton variables in rule head causes program to output booleans for all queries
Arguments are not sufficiently instantiated while trying to get combinations
The form of Result in Prolog
How to solve this Prolog question by filtering out the atoms?
Monadic Parser in Prolog (Example DIMACS files)
I can't manage to get into a second recursive call Prolog
Prolog, writing expression with no atoms
Prolog Error: Clauses are not together in the source file
predicate that output an expression containing an atom into a list
Prolog - Comparison between 1 and 0.5 fails
Prolog - transforming to tail recursion
prolog unary numbers - evaluating expression
Stack limit exceeded when trying to execute a Query in Prolog
Prolog: Wrong Evaluation?
Prolog program to search book by book_title ,by book_author, by book_edition using recursion
Prolog- get a segment of a list
Prolog - Array of arrays, returning entries where array length is greater than one
Executing all clauses and deleting somes
Prolog, Drop Node from Graph
Prolog flatten/2 implementation
Prolog, Generate all paths from a node to another, limiting the maximum number of hops
How prolog derivation works in this query?
How can I return the next move in the alpha-beta algorithm?
Enumerate multi set of all elements from given list which sums up to given number
Finding number of unique elements in the list
Prolog list length comparison return true/false
How to connect to MongoDB server via swi prolog?
How to get the result in the list with alternating sign using prolog?
How to use prolog to produce ideal list?
Calling phrase/2 on a list of grammar rules, rather than a list of atoms
How add finitely failed branches to a Prolog visualizer?
list processing in Prolog
How do I see a detailed order (execution) for a Prolog query?
Compute addition and subtraction of an arithmetic expression without 'is'
Prolog successor notation yields incomplete result and infinite loop
Express Knowledge base in CNF and resolution in prolog
Prolog stuck on a complex predicate
Interpreting Basic Prolog Result
Prolog: Arguments not sufficiently instantiated
Prolog: Multiplication(X,Y)
Look for algorithm/research area that determines facts that would make a Prolog query true given a Prolog program
Prolog - How to replace certain words in a list
Prolog - Multiplication by recursive addition
Prolog: counting atoms in a list
Problem in finding all prime factors of a number in prolog
Optimising a Prolog Rule
What is the approach for dealing with "residual goals" in Prolog?
Fail to display input and output in prolog
Searching Prolog Quine that doesnt use clause/2 or write/1?
Creating a Knowledge Base and Querying in Prolog
depth first search graph open and close list
SWI-Prolog: Using Threading with Mutex locks
Combining two lists in prolog
How to check equality in multiple lists in Prolog
Sum within list prolog
Retaining values in Prolog
Retaining values in Prolog
Why does this rule with `not` always return false?
fibonacci sequence recursive syntax error
Number guessing game in Prolog
how to add value to existing variable in Prolog?
How do I write the init function from Haskell in Prolog [closed]
Sum to a number program in Prolog
Difficulty with propositional logic in prolog [closed]
How to I get the outputlist in Prolog?
Can anybody help me understanding this prolog program?
Prolog Chess AI, Alpha Beta Pruning
Count specific element in list [Prolog]
Dealing with dynamic predicates that cause compilation failures
Water Jug Problem in Prolog with Best First Search
level([X|_], X, 1). how to get the level of a given value on a tree?
Why `f(a)=a` fails but `f(X)=X` succeeds in prolog?
SWISH Prolog Errors in Factorial
Prolog, Outputting a Variable After a Relation is Used
Is single sided unification sufficient for Datalog?
prolog program for sum of all even fibonacci numbers below 4000000
How to swap the result of a predicate to the opposite? True to False, and vise versa
Prolog go through all lists of a list
insert(I, [], [I, [], [] ] ). how to insert into a binary tree?
Should text-processing DCGs be written to handle codes or chars? Or both?
insert(I, [], [I, [], [] ] ). how to insert a value into a binary tree?
Does Prolog's toplevel use the wrong operator when printing results?
leaf([X,[], []], [X]). how to get the list of leaves of a tree?
How to translate a list into another in Prolog
How to use SWI Prolog's http/html_write library to write HTML to a file
Can single sided unification improve error handling?
Predicate should concatenate and reverse, but always returns false
Representing an expression in prolog
Prolog meta-interpreters and single sided unification
Is there any difference between using the "or" operator and using several clauses?
What does this program in Prolog do?
Creating Metavariables in Prolog
functor as variable in Prolog
insert(X, [], [X]). inserting into a last position
PROLOG bike touring task, create rules and queries
Duration comparison in prolog
prolog Arguments are not sufficiently instantiated error
Prolog Recursion in lists, last but one element
PROLOG Internals
Tabling in Prolog Game Search for Tic-Tac-Toe
SWI-Prolog syntax for JSON
Iterate through the prolog list and return a list with indexes of all positive values
Quine's algorithm with Single Sided Unification in Prolog
Extracting all variables and building a clause?
A cross-module "interface" call in SWI-Prolog
I need to multiply and sum one list, the output should be like this
Converting list of clauses to a query?
Do Prolog coroutines have a notion of solution and therefore determinism?
How do I find out which module a Prolog operator comes from?
Prolog if statement without else
How instrument Prolog code to check determinism
Different order of interpretation depending on the context?
When does Prolog prompts 'yes' and when does it says 'true'
what does <> mean in prolog?
Starting to solve a nonogram using `clpfd`
How to get the not effect in Prolog
Prolog setOf with Multiple Predicates
What is the most elegant way to find 16-bit numbers which satisfy some conditions?
APE: generate separate object-node instead named-node?
members() of a list
How to print a write value given prolog predicate retuns true?
How to express a disjunction of inequalities compactly without redundant answers/solutions
APE: Converting DRS to Struct
Prolog tries to find multiple solutions when only one exists
Arithmetic in Prolog - Multiples of a number
How to safely temporarily change the occurs check flag?
Convert DRS to Sentence
Prolog Infinite Loop: Bi-Directional Predicates
compilation failed in GNU Prolog
Inverting a function via CLP(FD) in pure Prolog
Dealing with unknown procedure error in SWI-Prolog
Prolog take a part of a list
Prolog: Sum the values of the leaves in the binary tree
How to create predicate that is true if gets different values
DCG capable of reading a propositional logic expression
prolog sorting a list based on the sublist of each element
CHR: How do you call Prolog code inside a rule
Use Prolog with C# (Unity)
find biggest interval in a list of sublists (these sublists have 2 elements)
I'm new to Prolog and I don't know where I'm going wrong
Prolog Prefix with index
Problem with building an expert system in prolog
CHR: managing "constraint stores"
Free Variable in Prolog
Non-linearity of Wielemaker-Demoen Unification
Paterson-Wegman versus Wielemaker-Demoen Unification
Lambdas in Prolog?
Prolog: slash separated string to list
Prolog Procedure si(A) Does not Exist
How to write a prolog program for recursive subtraction
Order of unification in lists when using pipe(|)
Quick-Dict or Hash-List : value by key and key by value?
Predicate returning false
Unit testing in GNU Prolog
An error showing while run this prolog code
problem with deleting list item in prolog
I wrote a prolog code for my family tree. What's the problem with this code?
Prolog does not compute the variable for a list
Prolog error arguments are not instantiated
Can Prolog facts be used for adversarial search?
Game Tree modulo Symmetry in Prolog
Check if object already exists?
How can I use this merge sort code in Prolog?
Most General Unifier (Prolog)
Precompute arbitrary Winning Strategy in Prolog
Threading state/context in DCG while parsing text
Returning value of the predicate in Prolog
How to write predicate that checks whether for two same X values there are different Y values?
Why does my implementation of Dijkstra's algorithm fail under this undefined case?
DCG: hidden argument across all Rules?
Finding all nodes connected to a vertex in Prolog
Prolog: Given a Matrix create the transpose
solving kakuro in prolog using predicate
Prolog delete all increasing subseries from a list
division and reminder in prolog without mathematical built-in predicates
is it possible to prove nested rule in prolog?
Create a list from user input and it should be merge sorted in Prolog
Convert complex term to List of lists and then back to term with modified functor [closed]
My Prolog program makes a list, but I can't figure out how to make it stop after 2 entries
Defining a DCG in Prolog for bit strings
A function that counts the number '1's, '2's and '3's in a list, with count represented as, for example, s(s(s(0))) = 3
Why is the list [1] not included in the answer P = [[]]? Prolog
How to generate the language of all binary strings of length n-1 using a DCG in Prolog
Tupper's Formula in Prolog
How do I define this predicate so that it doesn't run forever
Example of how pass by value-result works in Prolog
Predicate that, if we input 6 as argument, generates A = 6, B = 0... A = 4, B = 2... A = 2, B = 4... A = 0, B = 6 and ends
how should I delete non numbers in list use prolog
Problems with writing to file
How to populate a list in prolog at the end of recursion?
What is a simple worst case for occurs check in Prolog?
parsing with CHR (Constraint handling rules)
Some problems with reading file
I cannot get my Flex program to output a result into the console, it only returns "no"
Cut at the beginning of a clause
Selecting such or such Prolog system in Emacs via prolog.el
What occurs-check optimizations is SWI Prolog using?
Simulating occurs_check=error in SICStus Prolog
Excluding even numbers in Prolog
Arithmetic puzzle prolog
Solving linear system of equations with Prolog library Simplex
Excluding even numbers in Prolog
Arithmetic puzzle prolog
Solving linear system of equations with Prolog library Simplex
Powerset o a set(list) in Prolog
Instantiate arguments in Prolog
Find binary search trees based on traversal in prolog
Create a list from user input in Prolog
Prolog: random permutation
Prolog combinatoric of two lists ignoring the last items
How can I get my maze program to create and print two route-lists to the console?
Possible bug or omission
Emacs Re-Indent File
Proper subsumes_term/2 in SWI-Prolog?
Different answers when using anonymous variable and "normal" variable in Prolog
Define a predicate that holds of both numeral and their negative and enumerate them
Passing a GOAL as argument ? Plus variable number of arguments?
Proper unify_with_occurs_check/2 in SWI-Prolog?
Prolog encoded integers, less/2(X, Y) predicate
changing list of strings to atoms using maplist?
Setting order method in Sicstus prolog Samsort
Properly matching a set of tokens against my BASIC grammar
About building a list until it meets conditions
Grounding in Prolog given a predicate and a list
matching 'connectors' and creating structure?
Prolog recursive predicate returns to initial state after ending
Square Puzzle Problem Solution with Constraint Programming
How to create a list without using findall? Prolog
How would you express mutual exclusion of facts in Prolog?
How do I create a DCG rule inverse to another in Prolog?
Parsing list of items with DCG?
DCG : zero-or-more, zero-or-one , one-or-more occurrences?
How to remove variants from a List? Prolog
Expressing numerical constraints using Prolog without CLP(FD)
DCG encoding facts with lambdas in old Prologs?
how to print the first letter of few words in prolog list?
Tentative binding of variables in CLP
Pure Prolog Scheme Quine
List of prime factors of a given number in prolog with basics
To convert a list,Prolog
`less/2` relation in Peano arithmetic
Increase stack size in runtime in Swi-prolog
Perform list conversion,Prolog
Pure Prolog δλ-Calculus Equality
Pure Prolog Peano List Intersection
Pure Prolog Peano Number Apartness
Pure Prolog Meta-Interpreter with one Rule
Is "almost pure" Prolog expressive?
No implemantation in prolog MAZE
heapify prolog implementation
How to use call_with_depth_limit/3
NU-Prolog's and Gödel's logical and sound `if-then-else` extension
Code not working. Printing out a few specific elements from a list
How do I write prolog program which adds up only the positive numbers?
Why does SWI-Prolog invent f/2 given only f/1?
SWI-Prolog can't find pce library
I cant understand how the function subset(X,Y) works
Up-to-date Prolog implementation benchmarks?
I have a problem of maplist of prolog program
included_list(List1, List2)
Count the number of times a rule is declared - SWIProlog
How to get the first letter of each word enter by user
Late binding a variable?
Seeking a pure Prolog implementation of (\=)/2
Backtracking in Prolog
How do I construct a parse tree from a series of S-expression tokens in Prolog?
Pure append/3 for mode (-,+,+) that wouldn't leave a Choice Point
Is pure Prolog Turing-complete, and if so, why can't it implement list intersection?
Prolog : Execute intersection of two arrays without using inbuilt functions (such as intersection, member)
Prolog taller than
De Bruijn index based substitution in Prolog
DCG reversing a string of binary bits
Is there any difference between an N-ary function in Curry and an N+1-ary relation in Prolog?
Prolog - How can I modify this clause to be able to print it in-depth first search DFS?
Why does my Prolog S-expression tokenizer fail on its base case?
Check if list is Flattened or not in Prolog
Lists of list exercsie in Prolog
How to resolve this type error in my Prolog code for generating the Collatz Sequence?
Reverse Conversion in Prolog
If you write a compiler in pure Prolog, will it work as a decompiler also?
Prolog, produce lists with m first members reversed [closed]
Armstrong number using prolog [closed]
Prolog Recursive Pancake Sorting
Do modern Prolog compilers optimize away the occurs check automatically, when it's safe?
How to check if two elements of nested lists are the same index in Prolog?
Prolog - compare 2 lists that contain other lists as elements
Finding the position of an element within a nested list in Prolog
How to draw right triangle using recursion in prolog?
Finding the length of lists within a list in Prolog
Is there a higher order Prolog that wouldn't need a type system?
How can Prolog derive nonsense results such as 3 < 2?
How to do only 2 recursive calls in Prolog?
Check if a number is between 2 values
how can i draw star triangle using recursive in prolog?
How to call a predicate that appends two lists in Prolog?
Sorting a list in prolog based on 2 keys
Prolog tail recursive helper predicate for power
Sort predicate in Prolog
Truly Tail-Recursive modInverse() in Prolog
Prolog tail recursive helper predicate for power
Sort predicate in Prolog
Truly Tail-Recursive modInverse() in Prolog
Find whether a given employee name belong to two different Employee Id's?
Why Do i receive "Singleton variable" warning and incorrect result?
Why `depthfirst2` is always marked as red?
List split in Prolog
SICStus Prolog weighted_maximum/3 replacement?
SICStus Prolog sat_count/2 replacement?
Prolog reverse front members of a list
Passing from append to difference list on prolog
How to create a infinite list if input is not delcared?
Discrete Logarithm in Prolog
Singleton variable in branch
Is there a way I can call non-terminal symbols recursively when working with a DCG in Prolog?
How will Prolog interpret this?
How to print in prolog?
Most common sublist in Prolog
How to merge the elements in a list in a simpler way? Prolog
Failed to print resource exception due to lack of space- SWI-prolog
λProlog rejecting hypothetical reasoning queries?
Stuck on understanding Golog Interpreter - how can I avoid hardcoding?
Prolog clause being recalled every time value retrieved from clause is accessed
most general unifier of n(a,b) and f(x,y)
Unexpected result for predicate nb_setarg/3
Prolog check if list contains 2 times the elements of another list
valid bracket list in prolog
Finding all sublists of size N in Prolog
Grouping list elements based on values in list
How to find max element in nested list in Prolog?
Is there any reasonable way to embed a Prolog interpreter inside of a C program? [closed]
How can I get facts from my knowledge base into a list?
Rule for taking sum and compare fails
Prolog checking if 2 lists have same number of elements
Prolog program to find path list of 'right' and 'up' moves across a 10X10 grid
How to make a rule return all details of a fact using Prolog
How to state a facts in prolog what works in both ways?
GProlog reachable elements in a graph
Search for path is gprolog
How to stop infinite recursion in PROLOG
Rewriting tail recursion prolog code into simple recursion
Remove shared items in a list in prolog
Insert element after every element in list in Prolog
What does higher-order semantics give you in λProlog?
In prolog, why is `(1+2) is (2+1)` false?
How to count the leaves of a tree in prolog?
How to add constraints to elements of a list in other predicates?
Remove repeating elements in list, Prolog
Why is my recursive prolog script not working?
Prolog. Construct a transitive closure of a graph
Reading from textfile in prolog
Why does the negation as a failure work with \+ is_list but not with \+ is_flat?
Eliminate consecutive duplicates of list elements with prolog
How to test a predicate on a range of numbers and return those that pass in Prolog
How to make prolong understand a connection by other relationship
How to exam every 3 consecutive items of a list in prolog
Checking to see if an element is in a tree in Prolog
nesting depth of a term
Prolog recursively iterate a list fail
Two conditional based replace function over same list in prolog?
Is Prolog really based on the closed-world assumption?
How to solve Lumberjack quiz problem in prolog?
How to check for membership in a list in CLINGO?
Words with repeating symbols in prolog v5.2
Prolog - can't run the program as expected
If statement in prolog recursion
Prolog pathfinding stuck in a loop after found the answer
Pathfinding recursion runs out of memory in Prolog
second largest from a list prolog
Prolog - list contains 2x element X
How to return in prolog all elements from right to left greater than an integer in one predicate?
How to move first N elements to the end of the list for each list in the list of lists
How to count nth prime in prolog
Is there a way to check if an element is boolean in prolog?
Proof that a murder took place using Prolog
Is there a way to select only the first and last element of a list in PROLOG?
ZDD with Quantification in Prolog
What does this Prolog list manipulation program do?
Retrieve elements from facts in Prolog
Prolog query: how does addition matter for recursive queries
Problems writing to a file in prolog
Reversing the item order of a list in prolog
More complicated goals in higher order Prolog
Prolog Lists from List Predicate
going over entire the list and check whether items exists in Prolog
How to insert member list with menu driven prolog program?
Prolog finding max of list with two values
Splice in sublists in a list, without using flatten/2
Prolog: Can assign a valiable on a value based on this matching condition (ANAGRAM)
how to separate the values in min() predicate prolog
Arguments are not sufficiently instantiated in clause/2
Retrieve constrained list from knowledge base
Prolog: Assign a list of characters to a list of numbers
How do I write a predicate that takes as input a list, and appends all list-typed entries from this list to a new list using Prolog?
lists in new list in prolog without using flatten/2 [duplicate]
Retrieve Items in Prolog
'Syntax error: Operator expected' error while running prolog program in ubuntu
recipe function in prolog
How to read from a list in GNU prolog?
Printing minimum answer as list?
ListsfromList function in Prolog
In Prolog is it possible to have NOT operation in left hand side of a statement?
Heap Sort in Prolog
Decoding raw bytes received by udp_receive with as( codes )
Recursion on a list involving arithmetic operations and counting elements?
Prolog: find and put into the list duplicates
Prolog program capable of finding three consecutive and repetitive values
How to make a sublist in Prolog
How to correct this 'Greater Than' Arithmetic Prolog code?
How to keep track of how many items in a list are greater than the head element in prolog
prolog find minimum fact with two conditions
Negation predicate not/2 for SAT Solver in Prolog
Logic in Prolog
How to accumulate in a repeat (forever)
Prolog function to create multiplication tables
Prolog: I keep getting errors when trying to compile a simple program
WAM register allocation for same structures
Is it possible to increment/count from 0 to n without an accumulator with SWI-Prolog?
Access Head and Tail of List stored in a variable as input to further predicate (Prolog)
How to perform arithmetic operations on a list of lists in prolog
Euclid in Prolog (greatest common denominator)
Subtract 1 from number (recursion in Prolog)
to find a list of ten even integer reading an integer (N) from the keyboard,first element is the first even number after N
Filling list (as an array) : without cut, backtracking leads to infinite recursion after giving a correct production
Syntax error: Operator expected (SWI Prolog)
Does Prolog need GC when the occurs check is globally enabled?
Returning a value from an if-statement in Prolog
How to enable the occurs check in all unifications in SWI-Prolog?
Write list element into csv in prolog
How to remove an element from a multiway tree in Prolog
Boolean unification in Prolog?
Similar like world blocks in prolog with new rules
Does HiLog add anything that can not be done with "call" in Prolog? [duplicate]
Prolog - Recursively append numbers to a list
How to find a common element in two lists? Prolog
finding a cycle path in prolog
Building a list of float achieved with "Type error: `character' expected, found `0.0' (a float)"
Prolog convert list of string to list of numbers
Flattened form in WAM
Return values in Prolog
Check if all items in a list are a specific number in Prolog
Finding the path length of an Acyclic Graph in Prolog
Implementing an Automaton in Prolog
Finding the binary tree height in Prolog
Recursively traverse two lists and combine tests
Most General Unifier and Result
Underscore followed by numbers instead of solution
How to pass list's values one by one in another predicate prolog
Prolog: Implement Rule with Optional Facts
How to shift elements to the left as much as possible? Prolog
find minimum of list inside list on the basis of one value
undirected graph in swi prolog
Prolog list operation function
How to list all the trips discarding one airline
Should I enforce mode declarations by throwing instantiation errors?
find the list of all airports in a country in prolog
Test whether L is a valid Prolog list
Largest empty subgraph of an undirected graph in SWI Prolog
Dynamic union find algorithm in Prolog
Numerical comparision in Einstein Riddle
Build a new list of elements which appears more than 3 times in old list in Prolog
Prolog: Assign value to Variable in Predicate
Is !/0 supposed to cut through (\+)/1 or not?
Prolog stack limit exceeded
Swap two items depending on the index
count number of times Y happen in fact(X,Y) in Prolog Programming
How do I represent an alphanumeric string in DCG?
How to represent "Alberich hates everyone but himself" in Prolog?
List operation in Prolog for deleting [closed]
Concatenate two lists with determined values in prolog
Delete two consecutive constants from a list
prolog - ERROR: Arguments are not sufficiently instantiated
Unusual behaviour of findall
Prolog | findall with result list of another findall
FInd maximun in a List of List
Reversing up to middle in Prolog list
Deleting the middle element of a list
Prolog | Get a list in which elements are calculated with other list and a constant value
how to enter a range of numbers in prolog?
Why this prolog's output is yes/true?
How to generate all words of length N from an alphabet with condition
Output of a function as the input argument of another function in Prolog
How to create a swap function in Prolog with a temp variable?
How apply findall to find several fields | Prolog
Substract elements from two lists | Prolog
Recurse for Kth cousin N times removed in Prolog
Formatting the output with proper paranthesis - Prolog (without using ! and --> )
Sum of list elements sums| Prolog
The unification algorithm in Prolog
Prolog | add several values
Does it make sense to use a cut when a predicate backtracks into the same solution?
menu driver program in prolog with multiple input?
Prolog | Access to element on list
Reading a csv file of city distance in prolog?
Return the Nth oldest child from a prolog query
append elements satisfy certain condition to list in swi-prolog
Equivalence relation in prolog
Will this be tail call optimized in SWI-Prolog
Separating list of facts in prolog
Counting the number of valuations via Quine algorithm in Prolog
First-order predicate logic in Prolog: Working with Signatures and Arithmetic Terms
Edit Prolog program to output the result of a computation
Prolog: How would I seperate a list into two lists depending on the category?
Filtering Prolog Rule Results
how to remove the first two elements and the last two elements of a list?
How to sum up multiple lists in Prolog
QT + XSB prolog: "read access violation at 0x0"
Can't Count dots in Dotsville
How can I substract in prolog the elements from this structure: s(1, [[],[],[],[]] )? I need the integer and the matrix
Somehow I built SWI-Prolog without unbounded integer support. I need to use a predicate that requires this support
In Prolog, What are some reasons assert and retract could cause the query to fail?
Crypt-arithmetic puzzle help: SANTA-CLAUS=XMAS
Run Dijkstra among all the pair of cities as (source, destination) and store the distances as facts
Nested if statements that return boolean in prolog
Are logical connectors and quantifiers just another term for operators in the logic programming paradigm? [closed]
How to "write a predicate which returns the opposite of a literal" in Prolog?
Prolog: find a path from root tree node to a specified node
Prolog: How can I show just names that accompany certain numbers. I have a list in the prolog and I need to show just a few certain names
Parse data from csv file into given format using Prolog
Define each of the following prolog predicates given the following information [duplicate]
RDF: Extract value from type
System State in Prolog
how to randomly shuffle a list using Prolog?
Prolog program that finds the culprit of a crime given the following facts
How to check if variable is a number in Prolog?
prolog if else statement with swish
Outputting prolog in Mac
Comparing 2 names and their ages in prolog
prolog alpha-beta unexpected results
Prolog, display list result, after algorithm
How to get data from library(persistency) in SWI-Prolog?
SWI-Prolog Parsing input without querying
PROLOG: calculating the quiz average, dropping the lowest score
What is the difference between goals without and without call/2 in prolog?
Depth limited alpha-beta in prolog
How to find all adequate terms in a prolog database?
Return value of two functions are equal in Prolog
family tree in SWI PROLOG
First N Fibonacci Numbers in Prolog
SWI prolog return true instead of variable
Printing out a dynamically sized truth table using lists in prolog
Split a list on an index in Prolog
Prolog number generation between Number 1 and Number 2
How can I make a time parsing predicate work in both directions?
Defining "let expressions" in Prolog
Prolog number generation between Number 1 and Number 2
How can I make a time parsing predicate work in both directions?
Defining "let expressions" in Prolog
formatting the output with proper paranthesis - Prolog
Prolog, how to collect all possible result in one list
first order logic creating terms for arithmetic expressions using prolog
Convert a list from findall predicate to a string prolog
Why does removing the cut operator in this Prolog recursion not matter?
Trouble with defining rules in Prolog
Which Prolog implementation uses this syntax?
how does variable calculating the value in prolog's functor?
How does backtracking in recursion not cause an infinite loop?
How to set executable path for a package on a configuration file on Emacs?
Generate list in place of 'false'
Predicate with longest land border using mondial - prolog
Way to check if dynamic predicate contains a value
Read user input and assign string matching result to parameter
I have defined multiple predicates that seem to share a common form
write a predicate from other predicates by filtering based on predicate attributes with arithmetic operations
Write a predicate that works for cyclic graph to check if there exists a path between two nodes using prolog
Produce a list of Lucas/fibonacci sequence with Prolog
Prolog - Trouble with implementing the Sieve of Eratosthenes
How can I check that a particular constant exists in Prolog?
How do I write 'findall' in a Prolog code itself?
Prolog symmetric encryption
Does WAM Prolog have a Symbol Table?
typing period in VSCode is accidentally bound to something?
Is there a way to have a stop recursion in prolog after a certain number of iterations?
Prolog predicate for declaring one object is larger than the other?
How to completely remove a predicate in Prolog?
Implementation of predicate similar to Transpose in Prolog
Prolog set a list based on query values
Prolog recursion code returning false, add in variables as input to recursive list parse
Prolog - Dynamic predicate returning true even though asserta/1 is not yet executed
Automating my pet debugging strategy in SWI-Prolog
SWI-Prolog check if two elements in different lists are not at a same position. element 1 should be before or after element position
dif with occurs check
Prolog - Recursive append to list returning false
Is there a way to use ! operator in prolog using predicates only in prolog?
ERROR:9:42: Syntax error: Operator expected prolog
Creating a DCG capable of parsing trees in Prolog
Write a predicate that tests if all elements of a numeric list are positive. @mndrix
Elements of nth level of binary tree
How to express "ancestor" recursively
Flask API calling local method
GNU Prolog simple program doesn't work as expected
Generate new clauses in Prolog
Palindrome in base 4
How to define a string concatenation operator in prolog?
Prolog: Make double negation possible with an operator
How can I get that what this code in doing?
accessing relations within prolog
Finding maximal minimum value set
Counting how many elements in a list of lists satisfy a predicate
Prolog: Unhandled exception: pce(object) `@prolog_warnings/emacs_hit_list' does not exist
Prolog: define logical operator in Prolog as placeholder for other operator
Einsteins puzzle in prolog
Prolog sum distance between list of nodes ids
Are there formal systems that allow you to make human-like higher-order statements?
How to get a theory by using Aleph with SWI-Prolog
Prolog: No permission to redefine imported_procedure error
Why does my list reversal only work correctly in one direction?
Translating Imogen (an intuitionistic theorem prover for FOL) into a Prolog prover?
Recursive succ addition in Prolog
Problem connecting Java and Prolog with JPL
Append to list if specific word is entered
function takes an element and a list and checks if the length of the list is equal to the element
Explanation for why append/3 produces infinite number of solutions in these cases
How do i print a line with input using a line/2 predicate in prolog
Trying to learn prolog
Prolog, X is older than Y
Having trouble thinking in prolog. Infinite recursion problem [duplicate]
Prolog implementation of Beckert & Posegga's algorithm
How to take procedure as input in prolog
A "display" that always displays in prolog
Prolog: is there any way to generate the following items from a list?
Prolog - number to list of digits
Prolog - numbers to words
implement negation (\+ or not/1) in WAM Prolog
Looking for help understanding simple Prolog code
How do I make a new filtered list out of existing list in Prolog?
How to stop a recursion in prolog?
Recursively creating a list of descendants in Prolog
Prolog - program skipping over read?
Basic Prolog Error while generating a natural number
Prolog predicate to multiply two lists (representing unary numbers)
Having touble installing SWI-Prolog on Linux
Prolog - How to set timestamp as an argument in a predicate?
SWI-Prolog give me False message
How to replace every occurence of a value with another one in a binary tree with Prolog
Prolog rule can condition to be before a date, but not after a date, why?
Instantiating integer variables in Prolog
Reporting *why* a query failed in Prolog in a systematic way
How to play a sound using Prolog?
PROLOG: How can I create a KMP algorithm in prolog?
Append the result from operation on list elements in Prolog
Display all list elements that greather than N - Prolog
Prolog implementation of Quine's algorithm for classical propositional logic (in Quine's "Methods of Logic")
In Prolog, how to represent a(X) => b(X) V c(X)?
converting character list to list of strings with each one contains 3 characters in Prolog
Prolog Issue Infinite Loop Beginner
Prolog: difference between var, nonvar and ground
All combinaisons with repetition of a list
How to construct a Predicate Indicator?
How can I get a list of facts with an id matching each fact list item with same id using Prolog?
How to join two list in prolog without changing variable name
Proper definition of "atom" in Prolog and Logic Programming
How do I code a fact with variable arguments?
Split a list into two in prolog
SWI-Prolog: ERROR: Cannot find MinGW and/or MSYS
Prolog recursion trouble - minimum value in list
print list of variable names in prolog
How to get a numeric value from the consulting file in Prolog?
source_sink `library(matrix)' does not exist
How Can I Remove the 1st Matching Element From a List Without a Cut
Why does my prolog rule get stuck in infinite recursion
Proper handling of denormal floats in ISO-Prolog
How to print out all the facts in prolog
How to stop the recursion in prolog, once the desired value is returned?
How to join rules and print out outputs in prolog
implement the following tables using PROLOG
Implement this simple logic in Prolog
Counting occurrences in binary tree prolog
Quoridor AI - undirected graph
Variable bin packing problem with Prolog (CLP)
Divide list code snippet I dont understand
Solving a simple geometric puzzle in CLPQ/R (Prolog)
Prolog:get the head of the list who contains the most common elements
Here is a problem with the factorial code that I made with Prolog
Bind a list in prolog
Is there any way to use pyswip and Flask?
How to quicksort list of lists in prolog?
i want to know about the query if succeded or fail
I want to know if there is any way I can store a predicate dynamically in prolog and then call it
How to invoke a predicate functor based on a variable instead of a name
Ancestors in Prolog
finding depth of object without use of arithmetics
Prolog: duplicated family member
eight queen problem with permutation in prolog
Optimization for the solution of farmer goat wolf and cabbage problem in Prolog
What is the rule for second cousin in prolog?
adjacent involving first and last element, Prolog
How can I convert a list of binary 0 to 1 numbers PROLOG
prolog find all names that appears three times in facts
How to get more complex theory in Aleph with SWI-Prolog?
Can't get a correct theory by Aleph with SWI-Prolog
A list on which there are duplicates(on sequence),a part of which is needed to be transferred
For a given string, develop a prolog load (aSCii_Encoded (S, X))
Does anyone know what the SLD tree for this prolog code could be?
Prolog - finding a common ancestor in a binary tree
Creating a if else in prolog
Prolog: How does delete/3 works?
Prolog: Code Explanation about list and recursive wanted
Prolog: multiply list members with the previous member
How do i get a list of elements that I extracted from a knowledge base in Prolog?
Two DCG rules for `(ab)*`. Can it be one?
Pattern matching using list of characters
Writing a Prolog rule to check shows with rating greater than 8.5
Prolog: is valid distribution Rule
Where is the source of my time out error (swi-prolog)?
Prolog, simple task
misconception about how prolog works
Pattern matching with lists and strings with Prolog
Is there any way to print it in python(python bridging on prolog)?
SWI-Prolog: Call 3=2+1 -> Fail: 3=2+1
How to store the prolog list returned by the query in the python?
How is predicate logic represented in Prolog?
Prolog: Convert tree to order list and check if the list is sorted
Wine system prolog
How is the unbound output list bound to the input list elements plus 1 for each?
Prolog:Testing 2 lists for similarity
Prolog: Filter a list into a list
How to parse the first part of a Text in Prolog?
output shows the type like Atom or Variable not the actual value of the variable(pyswip in python)
repeat of numbers in prolog and see how many
WAM book: How is code generated when dealing with argument registers (L1)?
Prolog - bagof - case of no results
Can I pass an integer list from c# to prolog predicate?
Prolog query with constraint returns false, but there are answers
Access all posted clpfd constraints SWI vs Sicstus Prolog
Prolog: How to load a prolog program in Qprolog?
How to read list of atoms?
Prolog - Print truth table for first order table
How to find number of same elements in list Prolog?
Deterministic Finite Automaton with Prolog
Prolog classification by giving points to classes
Binomial coefficient using tail recursion/an accumulator in Prolog
Prolog: nat(s(s(0))) to "normal" decimal numbers
recursive sum using prolog
How to make a maze in Prolog?
Atom Appears in Section T1 Rewrite all a to c
How can prolog take minutes to check for answers within a bunch of possible combinations only?
Forward and Backward Chaining
Prolog - Solve labyrinth
'swipl' is not recognized as an internal or external command, operable program or batch file
How do I get the sum of all solutions to a predicate (given that the set of solutions is finite)?
Evaluate a string term in prolog
How to look up a value inside a list in a predicate, in PROLOG
How can I pair all elements in a list in Prolog?
What does the following prolog code exactly (Line by line)do?
Cut and fail semantics in Prolog
Prolog zipping with mergesort
Why single_child() does not work in prolog?
Prolog Sum value numbers smaller than limit
How to iterate through the predicates in Prolog
Multiple expression in the unification algorithm
SICStus Prolog garbage collection trace messages
How to arrange a list in ascending order in prolog?
How to make "less than" function in Prolog?
Prolog: Scheduling Start times with an additional constraint
How to repair error in Einstein Zebra in prolog >
How can I code division and remainder predicates in prolog without using the build-in aithmetic
How can i calculate a non-weighted graph length for a path that is given
Prolog - How to count elements of a list? [closed]
How to model the "sister" relationship so that it implies the gender
Why prolog fails to find a route to a vertices (in graph)?
Nested Predicates In Prolog
How can I code a specific game in Prolog?
Sum of values from facts
Hidden Markov Model Coin & Dice Example with Prolog
Globalization of large arrays in Prolog
How to create a higher order DCG parser in Prolog?
Prolog - Deleting Nth Column From A Matrix
How to exclude/ignore owner's review vote(+2) to submit in Gerrit patchset
Prolog - Deleting Nth Row From A Matrix
Get set of elements from list (Prolog)
Times, Quotient and Remainder predicates in Prolog
Sum, Average of elements and Count the occurence of elements in Lists in Prolog
Possibility of solving puzzle with single clause and single goal in Prolog
Repeat and Double elements in lists in Prolog
Why doesn't K keep its value?
Why does Cut doesn't prevent Visual Prolog from finding another solutions
How can I add an element to a list using the delete1() predicate in prolog?
How to draw SLD tree for this query
How to intersect two lists in Prolog
Graph cycle detection with Prolog
tau-prolog won't run a prolog code that I use CHR library in although it works on SWI-Prolog
How does `next` predicate work, making two opposite choices?
Has anyone experience with recursive problems in Aleph?
Write a program in Prolog to implement vanish(R,L,N) where R denotes the element whose all occurrences has to be remove from list L to obtain list N
Prolog generator stuck infinitely trying THE SAME OBJECT over and over?
Representing points in 2D and 3D spaces with Prolog
Is it possible to write an inconsistent Prolog program using only pure Prolog, cut and `false`?
Function to find a list in prolog
How to exclude all countries that have flag with primary colour in prolog?
Function to find a list in prolog
How to exclude all countries that have flag with primary colour in prolog?
Apply a predicate to a list of inputs Prolog
Drawing in SWI (or any) Prolog
How to write a pyswip foreign predicate with multiple solutions?
clpfd requires labeling to find any solutions (when using \+)
SWI-Prolog program works differently depending on whether I call "make." at the beginning
Finding subsequence pairs
Prolog recursive implementation of arithmetic average / mean
Repeat until predicate evaluates to true in prolog
How can I achieve more uniform backtracking in prolog?
How to avoid auxiliary predicates?
How to return all facts that are less than or equal to an input value in prolog
Exclusive solution sets?
I want to write a sublist rule but SWI-Prolog doesn't make it past rule declaration line
How can I determine centrality in a node graph in Prolog?
Prolog DFS with a heuristic
Implicit module initialization in SICStus Prolog
Prolog Recursion might not be exiting with proper boundary condition
How to parse natural language question for geoquery program?
Making Prolog's CLPFD aware of permutations and other symmetries
SWI-Prolog partition predicate works differently in REPL than in programme
Collecting entity-value pairs - a canonical solution?
Tail-Recursion in Prolog
Prolog "," operator not working as intended?
Prolog - Finding even elements in a list
Is there a prolog clpb coding which can solve this puzzle involving knights, knave, and spies?
Choicepoint pruning needs a cut, but I think the compiler should be sharp enough to do it by itself
How to write a file with its absolute path in prolog
How to obtain the cost of each employee in Prolog?
How to use maplist and [..]>> with grounded variable?
Finding the longest possible palindrome of any given list
current_predicate in SICStus Prolog
Prolog (swi for sharing) Predicate to solve a puzzle
Arithmetics in Prolog, represent a number using powers of 2
Mutating elements of a list in Prolog
Genetic Programming Prolog Implementation
Get result of operator predicate in Prolog
Prolog: Murder Mystery solution
How can I display the results of an SWI-Prolog program in a table? (CLP problem)
Fixed-point functions in prolog?
Can maplist([X]>>(test(X,Xs)) see variable in outer in scope?
Lists windows of width 1
Get 2 unique sub-lists both containing variable from a 2D list
Solving the Graph Coloring with 3 color and lists - Prolog
Prolog File not being read despite file existing
How to integrate Prolog within a Web application?
Load a Prolog database file (.pl) through gprolog (GNU Prolog)
Cartesian product of a list in Prolog
How can I make this more logic-y?
Implementation of Stack in SWI-Prolog
Prolog if then else logic (error: operator priority clash)
Prolog resolution prover deletes brackets
How can I print spaces in prolog
Constraint predicate not starting with the maximum value
Does anyone know of Prolog code for formatted input?
Beginner with Prolog - Arguments Insufficiently Instantiated
Prolog variables don't unify as supposed to
scheduling code is not identifying all solutions. possibly not backtracking?
[YAP 6.2.2][Prolog] "mmap" error during compilation on Ubuntu 20.04
Prolog - Recursively accessing list's list element and getting the total sum
Printing a binary tree in Prolog based on a matrix
Prolog same predicate with different elements?
How to implement data structure in prolog
Setof: Is there a way for early stopping?
Use a rule if a fact doesn't exist in prolog?
Recursion query that checks if X exists in a Prolog database
Prolog truth set
What are legitimate / proper System Errors in ISO-Prolog?
Retrieve internal/canonical representation of terms in Prolog
Parse a Prolog program with a Prolog program
Finding a route using Best First Search
The how(goal) question to show proof of conclusion the system arrived in prolog
Replace a clause in Prolog
how to use maplist and predicates
Relational operator symbols in Prolog 3-way comparison
prolog sublists between #
How to prevent unification in prolog
Three Prolog questions include grandparent
Prolog-SWI Can't figure out how to recursively multiply Polynomials
Block world problem search runs out of stack space
Indicating lists with common free variables in SWI Prolog
Prolog- Travel path and time
Prolog - identify sublists of variables
How to delete a given element X from the list in prolog [duplicate]
Getting all the combinations of colors in a list?
Predicate giving different output than the one intended
Prolog how to utilize list element as a variable in a predicate
Prolog - Append head to new list for every recursive run?
How to output False in a list if all numbers are less than 100 in SWI-Prolog
Can use a head variable as a functor name in a body?
Not expected building results
Prolog Duplicate element to mutliple times
Change list of variables according to another list containing the index and atoms in prolog
Prolog | Remove sub-list from List
Run Length Encoding Issue - Have [ ]s need ( )s
How to extend prolog driver and determine number of columns and rows by reading an eps file
Run length encoding using prolog
Type Error when assiging string to variable in Prolog
Prolog Run Length Encoding
Prolog Recursion through a list
Prolog Semantics and Succession
Accessing elements inside parenthesis in Prolog
Prolog: model simple polymorphic type
Returning multiple objects from a predicate
checking common letters in a certain index in a list of lists
Prolog: how to check if the currently evaluated clause was cut?
How to get multiple goals in Prolog
Checking descendants of a family tree in Prolog
In Prolog sort two lists relative to each other
How to write the set difference code without using memberchk and subtract?
Prolog Issue: Having Trouble With Variables (If I need them or not)
Prolog predicate that returns true if # is the first element of a List
Prolog: Sets and operations
How can I get pairs of consecutive elements in Prolog?
List of elements of list that obey certain codition in Prolog
run length decoding of a list in prolog?
matching patterns in matrix using prolog dcg
Struggling to use Prolog's maplist/2 like a functional mapping function
Verifying intersection of two lists in Prolog
Checking if a list of variables is unifiable with a list of lists containing letters
I am having problems getting a list of lists into a single list
Display results in Prolog
Trying to Implement a Split Predicate in Prolog
How to represent the following statement using predicate logic?
Why does this recursive Prolog predicate add some "_1508"-like numbers to lists?
Removing Duplicates while maintaining order in Prolog
Checking all the words in list that unify with list of variables
Make multiple replacements in a list by index
Swi prolog on windows cant take filepaths
Is it possible to have a list as a fact in prolog?
Prolog program returns false
How to generate a output with the list of permutations of a set in Prolog?
Split list of strings into list of lists in prolog
How do I implement in Prolog the predicate list_for_set
Automata and prolog
Checking if unification between two elements is True or False
Why doesn't the desugared "." functor syntax for lists work the same as []?
What does A| B mean in prolog?
checking if there a list of lists can unify with another list of lists
checking if two lists have common elements
Add elements to another list that complies a certain condition in Prolog
Prolog: last element and the rest of a list
how can i optimize my regular rectangle checker in prolog?
getting items greater than a certain item in prolog
Find an "infix" of a list in Prolog - order matters
Prolog - Counting specific elements in list of lists
getting items greater than a certain item in prolog
Find an "infix" of a list in Prolog - order matters
Prolog - Counting specific elements in list of lists
acumulating elements in a list
Delete empty lists from lists of lists in Prolog
Checking if a number is triangular
Error handling in time-limited Prolog meta-call
inserting an integer into a sorted list
Using Prolog to solve a brain teaser (Master Mind)
creating list of an elemente multipled n times
Prolog peano numbers difference/subtraction
How do I find if a list is a member of a list of lists?
how to get great-great-grandmother in prolog
making a list of random integers on prolog
prolog non oriented graph, how find the number of persons between two persons?
How to link MinGw-compiled library with MSVC project in VisualStudio?
Dealing with date in prolog
Why after pressing semicolon program is back in deep recursion?
Prolog membership predicate without dif or when
How to formulate an exception for findall/3 correctly?
How to create a list compose from names of a predicate in prolog
Prolog understanding setof/3 with ^ markings [duplicate]
How come 'mary' is true twice?
dcg parsing in random order
No permission to access private_procedure `true/0'
Recursive Summation with Conditional in Prolog
Convert from RDF "type qualified literal" to Prolog atom in SWI Prolog
Prolog Predicate Help: Delete Number N times from List
How to delete a specified amount of elements in a list without libraries Prolog
Finding sum of list in prolog shows factors of sum, not final sum result
clauses not being together in the source file warning
cannot output accumilated list of tau prolog answers
Prolog help | how come 'tony' is true when it should be false?
Stopping infinite loop in Prolog
Procedural semantics of swi-Prolog: failure to understand the resulting substitution
Define a relation first_last(L1, L2) which takes a list L1 and returns a list L2 containing the first three and last three elements of L1
Translate predicate calculus statement into Prolog
calculate the s-number for a natural number using Prolog [duplicate]
Label variables in Prolog
Why does it give me false as Subset's result?
Prolog membership predicate
Making tuples out of two lists
How to import Prolog from pwsip
Using await and async to make load an parse Tau-Prolog before anything else
Prolog getting the maximum out of a collection
Prolog how to get max option from many options
Using 'not' in Prolog in logic statements
Prolog Unable to SUM results from forall predicate
Recursion problem in Prolog - getting False instead of True when going out of recursion
Unique combinations of 0 and 1 in list in prolog
Perfoming member check on a difference list, but how?
Is there a difference between `nonvar(X)` and `\+var(X)`?
How can I increase the performance of the program?
Prolog - deleting pairs with the same first value from list
Implication branch doesn't see variables
Create a binary search tree from a list of integers
how do I infer using prolog?
retrieve one element from knowledge base in Prolog
Prolog pack_install SSL Error to swi-prolog.org
Proving H intersects K is a subgroup in Prolog (H and K are subgroups)
Prolog gives ERROR: Undefined procedure: utterance/1 (DWIM could not correct goal)
Is there a possible implementation for this problem? [duplicate]
Prolog - Max value in recursion
arithmetic operations on list elements in prolog
Tau-Prolog Interpreter shows different behaviour than SWI-Prolog
Prolog - Using append to return a single list
Generating 3 random numbers in Prolog: forall, foreach, findall, bagof, maplist
Combinations of multiple lists - Prolog
Prolog sudoku error, returns false no matter what
An easier way to split a list at the N-th place in Prolog?
parsing stdin with dcg
Debugging Simple Prolog Function
Read a CSV file in prolog and format the data into predicates of the form: prefers(employer 1, [Student1, Student2, Student3])
Prolog, Dynamic Programming, Fibonacci series
How to create condition for functor's argument in a rule - PROLOG
How to sort a list of strings "a", "bcd", "ef", and "ghij" in descending order of length?
prolog clp label - ignore some variable?
Setting up a rule?
Build a list with abs() in prolog
Prolog read file and use the data as input for different functions
Prolog Logic Puzzle Failure [duplicate]
I want to use Prolog to order some things, and I keep getting stack overflow errors
What does this predicate do?
Create a DCG Parser in PROLOG
Prolog Remove element from list
List of lists reading in prolog
Using Tau-Prolog with React
What do the numeric arguments for meta_predicate mean in SWI-Prolog?
Unexpected duplicate result when creating all combinations for n bits
Tau-Prolog results visible in browser window
Prolog: change depthfirst search to bredth first search
Prolog-Sum positive numbers from a List
Prolog - Connectivity Graph Beginner
Prolog Programming loop through a specific fact
Recursive loop exit statement needed
Prolog Printing a Tree
generate all the possible pairings of elements (a, b), where a is from set A and b is from set B in prolog
Prolog equality check fails on simple task
generate all the possible pairings of elements (a, b), where a is from set A and b is from set B in prolog
Prolog equality check fails on simple task
Assertz causing "no permission to modify static procedure" error
Why my predicate div/4 enters an infinite loop after giving me one answer?
How to split a list into two lists and find the length of them?
Is there a way to create a mathematical expression in Prolog?
prolog royal family grandfather/2 and grandmother/2
How can plus a list of lists in prolog?
If i want to write a prolog predicate to compare two periods (dates) and see if the two periods overlap ....for example :
Why does my predicate not work, when a similar predicate does?
Simple predicate that returns all possible splits of a list
Prolog office puzzle
How to use a list in another predicate in Prolog?
Prolog Concept - Replace an Atom Using Recursion
Is there a way to extend Einstein's Riddle in Prolog?
Variation of the zebra puzzle in prolog, and I can't figure out where I'm going wrong
Find the largest integer whose square is not greater than N in Prolog
Find combinations of elements of size bigger than the number of elements
Prolog Logical Purity: list of lists is not empty
Why can't I store OWL class in a Variable?
prolog - why should I use 'dif' instead of '=\='
SWI-Prolog reporting wrong answer with bitshifts CLPFD
(Prolog) Check if a list can be split into 2 sub-lists that have equal sums
How to read a csv file into a list of lists in SWI prolog where the inner list represents each line of the CSV?
Calculate sum of list, existing of sequential numbers, in Prolog
Prolog recursively applying a function to a list
How do you logically formulate the problem of operating systems deadlocks?
Prolog - equal operator wrapping
List processing calculation in Prolog to find a destination friends will visit
To generate all the prime numbers using the isprime/1 build in function. Prolog
cannot use the n1 in a simple recursive prolog program. Keep getting Undefined procedure: n/1
What is the meaning of a double slash `//` after the predicate name in Prolog, appearing in the context of DCGs?
List processing calculation in Prolog to find a destination friends will visit
Predicate retruns false when callled from other predicate
Prolog, given N and find all numbers not divisible by 3 and 5 and these numbers must be smaller than N
How to find a route between two stations in PROLOG
How can I design a predicate that returns a list of integers of length N such that none of the integers are divisible by the numbers in the list?
Prolog. After assinging variable a value, programm ouptut changes from `yes` to `no`
How to get value from key-value pair in Prolog
How to check if a station exists out of facts of stations and lines in PROLOG
Check for X failures/passes?
; (or) operator in Prolog not returning true unless the left side is true, even if the right side of the operator returns true by itself
How to write Prolog - defining basic operators?
Evaluate term in Prolog and write it
Prolog: Splitting a number into a sequence of increasing integers
Prolog- Not the expected Output
Prolog - Manipulating the same list for several times
Getting the last letter of two strings in prolog
Prolog Recursion through Set of
Prolog check if a or b exists in facts
Prolog - Finding specific elements index [closed]
How to get prime numbers from list and put them in empty list
How to check for empty Arguments in Prolog?
Prolog to SQL: Any way to improve SQL code for unit tests and fix an edge case elegantly?
Representing Prolog knowledge base as a tree
How do I find all the paths with prolog?
setof/3 inside setof/3 not working, but why?
Prolog findall/3 rule convert to recursive rule
Find mutual element in different facts in swi-prolog
My looping code in prolog won't work with the rest of my code
Combinations of multiple lists - Prolog
Sum up data from facts
How do I create a list with elements from 1 to N in prolog
prolog - recursive predicate sum(J,K,N)
Prolog: How to Verify User Input?
Why `X=1,X=1.` prints `X=1` instead of `true`
how to exit from swipl to bash?
Prolog - Redo after failed if-statement leads to uninstantiated variable?
Framework combining capabilities of Apache Jena and Prolog for handling production rules, triples
Switching arguments in Prolog
How are anonymous variables interpreted in Prolog?
Prolog ERROR: No permission to modify static procedure `marital_status/2'
How to predicate elements in a list based on element type
SWI-Prolog: ERROR: Undefined procedure: martial_status/2
Can you use "knight moves" to query a single database and join it to itself?
How to combine list operations?
Creating a queue structure in Prolog
Usage of distinct still leading to duplicates
Unclear phrase in the definition of retract/1
Define a rule happened_before(X,Y) which defines the relation that event X happened before event Y using system predicates
Solving a puzzle in Prolog about time constraints
Issue with prolog recursion and incrementation
Prolog predicate that prints items on odd positions. Help me to write code?
Prolog: why is this a "bad" program?
Prolog does not evalutate parenthesis
retracting and asserting values in prolog
Identify whether an object comes before another object in a list
Prolog - why does the following code generate the solution X=root forever?
prolog finding cardinality of a list
How to check that all predicates of a specified name have the specified number of arguments?
Prolog Member in Logic Puzzles
prolog - Generating dates between dates
Issue with Prolog code doing summation of elements in a list
Result given for and operator predicate (Prolog)
How to use DCG in Prolog
Use of redundant goals in queries
Multiple instances of Prolog clauses with identical ground head. Any uses besides for this besides (dubious) control of computation?
Prolog Program Not Merging Sorted Lists Correctly
Use of redundant goals in queries
Multiple instances of Prolog clauses with identical ground head. Any uses besides for this besides (dubious) control of computation?
Prolog Program Not Merging Sorted Lists Correctly
Converting minutes to hours in prolog
Greater than and less than values in Prolog
How to generate a list with only two 1s and other 0s of the given length?
prolog - create list from facts by criteria
The smallest `max_arity` of compound terms in ISO Prolog programs
How to get predicates by specifying the number of arguments it should have?
Prolog jargon: id(X,X). fact or rule?
Make swi prolog to return the predicate name
Recursive program to compute Taylor approx of cosine not functioning in Prolog
Expanding DCGs in Prolog
can truncate(7^sqrt(8)-8^sqrt(7)) be solved via CLP(FD)?
Prolog: Print to swi prolog console immediately I consult a file
How do I rewrite the following so it uses if_?
Avoid double recursive call in Prolog
How to question user in forward chainig expert system
How to get full stop in this Prolog predicate?
Prolog: Syntax error: Unexpected end of file procedure `(?-A)' does not exist
How to solve an undefined procedure error in Prolog?
Z notation to prolog
Prolog predicate where two items are associated but not equivalent
Difference between `is` and `=`?
Not understanding a Possible definition for Not in Prolog
ASP Hamiltonian Cycle Story
Looping through and modifying a separate list in Prolog
Expanding Prolog clauses with forall/2
Why can't I reach the array data by the array name in Prolog?
Why does the unification not work ? Prolog
How to read bytes from a file
Prolog: process_create doesn't work inside http_handler
Expanding Prolog clauses without parameters
User Input , How can we do it?
How to remove a variable out of a list of variables in prolog?
How to swap three by three elements in a prolog list?
What happens when I call a function that calls a function with more parameters than I have entered
How to access database members when calling a predicate that you defined by yourself
Displaying all the members of database in Prolog
Passing a returned value from a predicate to another predicate in Prolog
Get elements from list of lists
Basic number comparison in prolog?
How to write switch-statement-like code in Prolog
No permission to modify static procedure dynamic/1
Prolog binary addition
Very basics: How to create & manage lists in Prolog?
Unary and binary arithmetic operations in Prolog
How to generate distinct solutions in Prolog for '8 out of 10 cats does countdown' numbers game solver?
SWI-Prolog unable to run external processes through JPL
How can I catch the output to the console in Prolog to verify it?
Prolog problem modeling: objects with different colors
Delete from list in SWI-Prolog
Simple Prolog to Clojure core.logic
Naively assuming considered harmful: Prolog predicate with accumulator blows (global) stack, but naive version does not
source_sink `appl' does not exist
Prolog: Convert constant with parentheses to string
Find all lists of sublists that when concatenated give a given list
source_sink `library(lineutils)' does not exist
Create all possible AVL trees given a list of elements in Prolog
Prolog, return only smallest result
Check if a number contains digits A and B. Prolog
how to draw a search tree using trace in prolog
Exclude variants/rotations of lists in solutions SWI-Prolog
Prolog : find something not referenced in another predicate
Prolog query with the use of conditional cut
Prolog replace all occurrences of an element by another element in a Tree
Prolog- what causes the out of local stack error in this case?
Listing elemets of a list as i want, in Prolog
prolog predicate implementation handles cycles properly avoiding infinite loops
Solving Instant Insanity in PROLOG but i always get "NO"
Prolog order of clauses causes pathfinding to fail
Confusion with classesInOtherPkgWithProtectedMember in the JVM spec, and more generally rules for accessing a protected member
Does SLD tree exist if the query is invalid in Prolog?
How do I map certain values to a list in Prolog?
Prolog logical programming Binary tree predicates
CLP(FD) variable domains & propagation
Why does Prolog returns true to this query
How to select the shortest path from a selection in Prolog
Prolog code in python with Pyswip outputs "None"
Prolog Recursion | using multiple predicates to calculate sum
Why is this rule not consuming the first character [Prolog CFG]?
How to delete every second occurence of an element in a nested list - PROLOG
How to find the last item in the third list, which is collected from the first and second list?
Syntax error: Operator expected in prolog code
Simple car-gas station game in Prolog
Amzi Prolog won't pass value when being called
SWI Prolog give all variables in list of lists specific value
Prolog: Why is there a vertical line and underscore in the output [x,y|_]?
Fair non-binary random item
Prolog translating words issue with capital letters
SMT solver versus Prolog
Change the default output values in swi-prolog "true" and "false" for predicate evaluation
Prolog: Determine answers to Multiple Choice Question test where students' answers and grades are known
How can I start my prolog web service using a systemctl service on a linux server?
predicate solve/2 its first argument is non-empty list ,second argument is list consisting of zero or more appended copies of the first argument [duplicate]
Concating 2 lists with third list containing every different order of the elements of the 2 lists
Program to find what predicates are missing for a goal to be provable
count number of correct answers and check..prolog
Program to find what predicates are missing for a goal to be provable
count number of correct answers and check..prolog
define a predicate solution/3 which is true when its three arguments, all lists, has the third list containing all elements of the first two arguments
Querying a data knowledge in prolog
Restrict automata counter prolog sicstus
Avoiding the same answer multiple times in prolog
Prolog reasoning about predicates
Matching patterns without unification in Prolog
Is there a way to reorder CHR rules at runtime in prolog?
Cloning,Copying prolog list
Sublists of consecutive similar elements from a list in Prolog
Why is this Prolog program returning true AND false?
SWI Prolog description of call/1: "clauses may have variables as subclauses"?
How to ask for user choice in Prolog?
Prolog check for duplicates in answer to query (easy way?)
Prolog: eliminate repetitions in query
CHR in SWI Prolog: Rule guard containing "just removed" constraint does not return, blows stack
Visual prolog duplicates in list
IndexError: list index out of range for pyswip library
AND-OR in same statement - Prolog
ERROR: No procedure usermod : select / 3 exists
Prolog constraint for cyclical ascending list
Get "type" of DCG in Prolog
Is this prolog program in tail recursive?
Split list of two nested lists in two separated lists - Prolog
Reverse every second list of lists in Prolog
Running sum list for prolog?
Generate decomposition constraints for constraints
Reducing constraints in Prolog
Fill a list with N characters at the end of it Prolog
Copy all the elements of one list N times in a new list Prolog
Solving chain reactions in prolog
How do I sort a resultant list in Prolog?
Sort a list in Prolog
Prolog - Calculate fastest travel between 2 locations given different travel modes
A union of a conditions
Two lists have at least one common element without Prolog built-in predicates
how to compare elements of a lists in prolog
Relation that generates next prime
Get duplicate items in a list and display answer in a list
how do i print out stars using prolog [duplicate]
Solving a simple puzzle in prolog
Http Post request via prolog
how do you print stars n amount of times on multiple lines using prolog
Prolog going though a list and turning the odd number to even by doubling all the odd numbers in the list
PROLOG return size of the smallest generated list
PROLOG sum of integers inside a list
Add all generated lists from a predicate into one big list at the end
Prolog how to count the number of facts without using a built in
Running Prolog commands from a bash script
Create a list of adjacencies by adjacency matrix
Constraint Handling Rules in SWI Prolog: Does the "constraint store" exists only for the duration of the toplevel goal processing?
Prolog - System of equations solver
How do I open an image in prolog and display it in terminal?
Find all in prolog
Prolog Quicksort using second element as a pivot
Iterating through 2D list in prolog?
Iterating into a list within a list in Prolog
Using a single clause compute whether the sum of any three members of a list is equal to given value
How to make a Depth First Search Work with a (node, list) relationship instead of (node, node) in Prolog?
Dealing with uninstantiated values in Prolog
Prolog inheritance logic: how to match?
Multiplication of two complex numbers in prolog
swi-prolog doesn't stop after first true with disjunction (or)
How do we add each element of two lists in sequence in Prolog?
why do you define a rule twice in prolog
Prolog translation
Calculate whether the sum of exactly three values in a list is equal to N
What's correct way to make natural number rule in prolog?
prolog, duplicating in queries
How do I use an "either or" with a math function in Prolog?
How to convert tree to list in Prolog?
In prolog, how to write Quicksort is use second element as pivot?
Quicksort using the second element as a pivot (Prolog)
Given a few facts in prolog. I can't seem to create a rule which returns the variables don't have a relationship with given variable
How to give values to items in a list in prolog
how do we represent complex integers addition and multiplication in prolog?
Prolog Using lists with between inside predicate
how do we do a cycle in prolog?
Is it possible to get elapsed time in microseconds in Swi-Prolog?
Count nodes in prolog
How do I append an element to the beginning of a list after splitting a list?
Creating a specific list in Prolog
Creating a bidirectional rule in CHR and CLP/FD
Prolog: Concatenate 2 constant Variables with a dash
How to remove the repeated members in a simple list [ prolog ]
Why atom([]). is false in SWI prolog software while in GNU prolog is true?
Tree Breadth-First in Prolog
How to retrieve elements of a list of lists recursively in Prolog?
Filter association table prolog
Generate all permutation of N (N - given) respecting the property: for every 2<=i<=n exists a 1<=j<=i, so |v(i)-v(j)|=1 in Prolog
Prolog repeating the same answer infinitely
Prolog write n as sum of consecutive numbers
Creating a list in Prolog based on some specifications
Is this logically and syntactically correct -- Nested Fact?
Same elements in lists
PROLOG - What is an accurate answer for a proof?
Prolog: Find Minimum again and again until the list is empty
How to remove an exception error when subtracting 8 from a variable?
prolog replacing elements in list
Do not know how to say male(X) not equal to female(X)
How to properly construct prolog parser?
How to send EOF on Prolog swipl REPL on Windows to close the pseudo user file?
Prolog- find any number above 0
I want to make a prolog program to do sum of non-duplicate numbers
How to find all twins from family trees in Prolog
Is there a way to compare three lists in prolog?
Fold-add all items in List, using Prolog
How can I return a number in prolog?
Remove / update all lists from a list that meet a certain criterion
Graph Coloring Problem in Prolog : Program not terminating
When the prolog returns sat as an output what does it mean?
Prolog intersection of list elements
Calling predicates from another predicate
The results my Prolog program outputs are not what what they are supposed to be
Assign variable in list
Logical exclusive or in Prolog
Unexpected behavior of frozen/2
How do I rewrite the following so it uses if_?
advanced prolog tricks for 2019? [closed]
Prolog DCG select distinct items
How to set mutually exclusive probabilities in Problog?
PySwip error on launching : cannot unpack non-iterable NoneType object
Prolog on finding last element of a list with append
Why is my prolog predicate stop when it gets the first answer?
How do I run a prolog file from the command line and not drop to the repl?
Local negation in prolog
prolog : How to check if the first character is uppercase
Fitltering in findall
Using a list of pairs as an argument in Prolog
Add elements incrementally to a Variable
How to tell Prolog that two literals are equivalent
Check if triangle is equilateral in Prolog
Prolog, generate all combinations of n balanced brackets
Is the second of these solutions more efficient?
Having trouble figuring out what I need to change in order for this code to compile
Returning List of possible answers
Is there a way to use labeling to find a variable when 'is' is used in the rule?
How to implement the relationship for any two representatives located in different parts of the database?
Prolog: apply predicate to all list elements and sum results
Out of stack error on a simple Prolog predicate
How to return element by element in a shuffled list and not having them returned all at once?
How is the day of the week unicorn?
Why does Prolog find to many solutions when filtering a list?
Converting a string to a list in sicstus prolog
Print elements of a list but handle last element differently
Prolog check if two values are member of a list
Tau Prolog behaving differently from sandbox
SWI Prolog foreach/2
SWI-Prolog YALL conflict with dicts
Why predicates and functions are not explicitly separated in Prolog?
Asserting predicates using Tau Prolog for Javascript
How to get output from stdout using python subprocess?
Is there way I could fix this error ? Undefined symbols for architecture x86_64: (gnu-prolog)
Prolog: add lists in a heterogenous list
SWI-prolog Semantic reasoning
Finding the weighted sum of a tree
How does recursive back tracking works in Prolog
how to implement logic operators in prolog
Does it matter what is unification terms sequence?
Predicate vs Function PROLOG
How to read JSON file in Prolog
How can I dynamically assert rules with conditions conjoined in the body in Prolog?
Unification of terms in Prolog
Possible to assert a list?
Prolog - filter a list with a list as condition
Need to do reasoning over owl
What changes should be made to the code built for image processing API in prolog
Equivalent of "assert" in JPL7
Is there a command to show the search pointer of every step in Prolog?
Anytime strongly connected components via Prolog
Prolog tries to find other solutions but I don't know why (there is only one)
Prolog, Is it possible to use variable to call clause? [duplicate]
What does X evaluate to in the second operand of a predicate such as "example([X|L1], [X,X|L2])"
Prolog - finding min element in list
Prolog Logic with adjacent rooms
Error Undefined Procedure in Prolog while using (condition -> then_clause ; else_clause)
Prolog DCG Sytnax Error: Operator Expected
Write executes after read
prolog query gets stuck even when base predicates are defined
Prolog predicate does not recognize passed parameter in recursion
Prolog predecessor math
Prolog: Define propositional logic statement operators and add arguments to list
Checking all Members Of List
(SWI-PL) I can't figure out how to create a prolog rule to match this particular type of input
Is there any way to check whether input n is less than or equal to length of list?
Prolog - increment by given number
How to write a prolog query that calculates the total salary and less than a value?
Installing Prolog via Eclipse
How can I print a list recursively without use any built-in function in Prolog?
Predicate for has triplicate in a list?
How to have this prolog code run in sensible time?
how do I put the index of the matching elements into a list?
XSB Runtime errors - MulVal
How to make a negative fact in PROLOG
Converting list to terms in Prolog
How to make a negative fact in PROLOG
Converting list to terms in Prolog
Prolog: Debugging Recursive Source Removal Algorithm
adding elements one by one to a new list in prolog recursion
obtaining the rest of a clause as a list and creating a list of lists
Basics of using prolog swipl-stdio
How to handle associative arrays in Prolog?
Recursivity | Natural numbers in list swish prolog
Prolog: why this predicate finds the answer but ignores it and goes on to unify with []?
Prolog - construct list on condition of other variables
Zodiac program code using prolog is not giving output
How to write all paths in a directed graph with no cycles? (Prolog)
Finding consecutive sublists of a list
Prolog add certain items to list
Building a two-dimensional list from a one-dimensional list using Prolog
Utilizing CLMUL in SICStus Prolog
How can I call cool image library functions by using prolog?
Prolog - first list is sublist of second list while maintaining order?
Rotating a list to the right (Prolog)
Prolog - Operator priority problems
Wrap every element from a list
Installed PYSWIP but when trying to import it shows "module doesnt exist"
Prolog: count only direct child nodes of a parent using pure recursion
How to anwser this prolog question about paths?
List of Prime Numbers. Why is my code not working?
Generic programming in Prolog
How to merge patches in Gerrit only when there are 2 +2 in Code Review
getting Syntax error: while trying to execute a prolog program from a shell script
Looping in Prolog by replacing goals with `fail`
Prolog query doesn't return all answers
using the 'not' operator in Eclipse Prolog
insert a element after the odd elements of a list in prolog
How to get SWI-Prolog to always print strings with quotes, in interactive mode
Problem with getting a list as an aswer in pyswip
Write immediatly on the console
Convert List enumeration to formatted string
How to solve "content is not allowed in prolog"?
Prolog clpfd :: operator expected
Predicate to check if a set is a subpart of another set checks correctly but generates only void set
how to call this Prolog code inside java netbeans
Month not associated with unique value?
Write a prolog rule to compute each city’s altitude in meters
How to write numerical predicate in Prolog
No permission to access private_procedure `var/1'
delete all occurences of a term in a list
Prolog Error: `character' expected, found `"((.).)"' (a string)
How to find last bit set in a number (SWI-Prolog)?
Ensure Input List Minimum Length Prolog
Multi user web application over prolog data files
How can you analyze a Prolog formula?
7 liter and 5 liter jugs to 4 liter jug puzzle with depth-first search
Lists size multiplication
How to correctly write grandparent rule
Prolog Program not exiting
Approximate value of sin by Taylor series
Bypass rule for administration group in rules.pl in gerrit configuration
How do I determine if a prolog `compund term` has a particular `atom` inside?
Internal predicates evaluate/2 and evaluate2/2
How to print Graph Path serially using recursive algorithm in prolog
getting control error when using not fact(something) in prolog
Understanding reification - “What relationships hold between x and y?"
Creating a List in prolog recursively
Prolog | find the path from root to leaf with the maximal sum of node value
Split a list in two halves, reversing the first half using difference lists
How do I output answer of my user input knowledge base in Prolog
List of candidates from different cities
different behavior of predicates in prolog
Why is the output of "canget(state(atdoor, onfloor, inmiddle, atwindow, hasnot), Plan)." in this program repeatedly returning as false?
A different way to convert an atom to number
In swi-prolog; How to create dup(L1, L2), where the elements of L2 are duplicated elements of L1?
Superpermutation in Prolog
Prolog: Reflect (X,Y) -> (Y,X)
Rule matching regarding lists in SWI Prolog
Prolog returning "true" instead of "yes"
create_mutable/2 in SICStus Prolog
Searching an association list by key
How can I localize the reasons for excessive goal expansion?
Mutually exclusion in a logic task
I am new to Prolog. I have tried to develop a major selection simple expert system, but I am stuck
CHR behavior in SWI Prolog for simple and() rule
Prolog beginner, combining rules question?
Reading out text from an editor in XPCE
How to generate a grid of predicates in Prolog?
Briefly explain how the Prolog program works?Consider the Prolog program given below
CHR solution output in Prolog
Knight's tour in Prolog: Stack limit exceeded
Structuring SWI-Prolog Code into Modules for Unit Testing of Multiple Algorithms and Data Sets
SWI-Prolog stack limit exceeded with tiny problem space using clpfd
how to get a program to compile and display in console
switch between 1 and 0 in a list
Prolog - Split a list in two halves, reversing the first half
Zebra puzzle - who lives on which floor?
How to catch exception to backtrack(or Delimited Continuations) in Prolog?
How to fail base clause and use recursion prolog
compute the ranking of a parameter in the list
make list consists of the same item
Is it appropriate for a parser DCG to not be deterministic?
"Going back" in a SLD tree in Prolog
Prolog recursion base case
Prolog map procedure that applies predicate to list elements
Prolog query with default for missing values
What is the equivalent of an "outer join" in Prolog?
In Prolog, how do I turn all answers to a query into a list?
Prolog : querying if something doesn't satisfy a predicate
Using PySwip to query Prolog database from python
What makes a DCG predicate expensive?
Accessing and crawling the file-system in SWI-Prolog
How can I take input and make a list with it on Prolog?
Am I entering an infinite recursive loop?
(prolog) Can i abstract all the permutations of this pattern instead of having to write each one individually?
String Comparasion Help For Solving Logic Grid Puzzles
How to reify Prolog's backtracking state to perform the same task as "lazy seq" from Clojure?
Parallel Primes in Prolog?
Hashset and Queue in prolog
Prolog | Return true if two elements in a 3x4 matrix are diagonal
Prolog List elementwise similarity comparison
How to improve solution for string concatenation?
Checking equal digits of numbers between lists?
Prolog how to add element in a list if is in a list
Prolog- procedure "?-A" does not exist
Infinite recursion error with and conditions?
Using procedures module Prolog
Is this function tail recursive? Why does it fail for large lists?
Defining complicated facts - Einsteins Zebra
Prolog: add a list
Six seats at the table
Prolog reverse/2 list output format
Recursion with or cases
Check if element in a list of lists is equal prolog
Constraint programming suitable for extracting OneToMany relationships from records
Prolog: compare three lists, 1st element of list1 to last element of list2 AND second to last element of list3
how to optimize this code so that it executes faster
Complex query with multiple solutions from c ++
SWI-PL: read() after a writeln() / write(),nl holds out the output of all previous write()
How to check if a term contains variable?
Join two list in prolog?
How to solve a knapsack problem in CLP(B)
SWI Prolog, CLP(R): Can I bind a constraint to a variable?
How to sum predicates values without using list?
Verify_attributes in SICStus Prolog
Equality of sets
Sum values of variables?
Meta-interpreting logical cut in Prolog (Edited to accommodate comments)
When does Prolog break lines?
Predicate returns true and not some value
Is there something like anonymous predicates in SWI Prolog?
Is there a way to reach the same result in a clause using less variables?
How to correctly filter a clause that returns multiple duplicated values?
Prolog - delete a member from a list
Prolog: obtain a list with two sublists, containing the odd position elements and the even position elements. How to Improve this code
Prolog list arithmetic average
Print a list from a matrix
Timetabling in prolog
Compare list in prolog
Is there a more efficient way to implement those 2 function in swi-prolog?
how to make swi prolog explain a solution
Check if first or second element in list are same data type.Prolog
Prolog, strange answer of setof
Checking if first three elements of list are same data type.Prolog
Trie implementation in Prolog?
Disjunction G1 ; G2 vs. If-then-else Cond -> G1 ; G2
Prolog returning empty list, problem with base case on recursive predicate
How to find and output lists including the max number(of all lists)? Prolog
Checking if all elements of list are same data type (atom I guess). Prolog
Pruning symmetrical solutions in ECLiPSe Prolog with the use of constraints
Best way to print array/list in prolog without commas, brackets, or spacing?
How to get desired output
Prolog problem with findall how to construct a solution of a list which is a pair (element, list_of_elements)
Why do I get a Infinite Loop (Prolog)
Prolog cut "!" operator in erlang
Is there any explicit support for modulo operation in eplex library
What does [] and [_] mean in Prolog
How to make sure that only 3 out of the 5 numbers are the same?
SWI-Prolog list result
Create a list of Key-Value pair
Checking if list been sorted in Prolog
Enumerating all walks in a graph
Prolog: Creating a frequency list of another list
How to determine if a child is a single child in a PROLOG family tree?
deleting zero from string in prolog
Why is length/2 getting me out of global stack?
Assigning values in a predicate
How could I get [a,0,b,0,c,0] when I give [a,b,c]?
How are variables transmitted in Prolog?
Prolog game gives wrong answer and only one answer
Prolog - make list
Argument - simple prolog
Given a list of elements, replicate each element N times
Check prolog palindrome 123123
Generating a sequence of leap years using clpfd
Is it possible to delay an assignment operation
How to check if all elements in the list of lists are the same except one [Prolog]
Fill a 2D matrix with given value in Prolog
Prolog: How to find out which part of code is failing and write a specific message depending on that part?
How can i make a program in Prolog that recognizes the gender, plurality and case of a noun which the user inputs?
Fibonacci numbers - Out of global stack error
Query Dictionaries with PySwip (Python-Prolog)
Undefined procedure in prolog query with C#
Program recurs in different line than supposed to
How can labeling/2 generate solutions starting from the midpoint of a domain?
Template for prolog text processing and constructing state
Why the end of result list is not []?
Prolog Create Dictionaries
Check whether diagonals are the same value
How to make assumptions in Prolog
Hints to understand splendid program to solve Queens
Cannot do simple Prolog
Modeling an action and reaction flow in Prolog
Get A Random Subset of Solutions
Representing uniqueness on a restricted domain
Prolog - distance from two point
Permission denied when opening file in Prolog
Two objective functions
Create a list from a Prolog DCG
How to view images on GUI without a static path
SWI-Prolog Backtrace Infinite Loop
Prolog stucks after giving the result
Generate list and check if the values are increasing
Prolog - Keep track of multiple sum counters
How to concatenate strings in Prolog
Prolog DCG with variables
Prolog - split_string on every element in list
Sum of different elements in dynamic list and make a descending list
Accessing predicates from included prolog file
Find the minimun length of a SubList that contains all numbers from 1 to K
Minimum size of sublist
List operations in prolog [duplicate]
Check duplicates values in each row and column in 2D Array
Simple Knights and Knaves Problem in SWI-Prolog
I want to sum in SWI-Prolog depending on certain user answers
How do I add a field to a Prolog (Pengines) response?
Prolog DCG with arguments
Find at least one word of even length accepted by finite automaton
prolog to display multiple mysql records in web
Find first sublist that has all numbers from 1 to K
how to translate 'Saya' to ' I ' and 'saya' to ' i ' in prolog
How integer suspension will be handled when it is used in head of a condition
how to print something inside a list without the '[]' and ',' in Prolog
How to abstract all datas using if else in prolog
Compare two lists with Prolog and collect the different elements in a different list
How to count the predicates
Getting node from a graph prolog
How does prolog uses backtracking to find solutions?
Prolog function returning true instead of value for variable
How to properly iterate through two-dimensions array and sum all the lengths of elements?
Modules exporting identical predicates in Prolog
Prolog CLPFD Transitivity
No permission to modify static procedure `findall/3' when running a file instead of running interactively
VSC Prolog on MacOS Mojave error: "path to executable was not found"
Is there syntactic sugar for multiple conclusion rules in Prolog?
Prolog not showing output in the way I want / need
Converting Scheme Functions to Prolog
How to remove vowels from a given string in Prolog?
Eclipse CLP: maximum number of constraints/variables
How to make this function return the coordinates instead of an empty list
Deep copy of a list in Prolog
Find path between 2 points from given connections
How to get the result from Prolog, via the C++ FFI , into a C++ variable
Constraining domain for variable through list
What does Prolog assert/1 do with the term it is passed?
how to consult a file on a ftp area in prolog?
How to compare a list of constants to a list of variables
How can I get half the number of elements on a list prolog
How to leave in the first list elements that have a even occurrences in the second list? (Prolog)
Splitting list into sorted sublists (Prolog)
How can I compare the value of two predicates prolog
How to count only the number elements in a list (PROLOG), except _?
Pick specific lists from a list of lists
how to compare last element of a list with last element of another list in prolog?
prolog rule to change singular form of word to plural
Question: how to implement A=a/1, B = b/3, C=A+B that results in C = a/1 + b/3?
Prolog uncaught exception: error(existence_error(procedure,a/0),top_level/0)
Internal workings of ic_global/occurrences/3
How can I create this rule in Prolog?
A General Method To Transpile A Code in Eclipse CLP to CHR
How do I compare variables following a pattern defined by the user?
Enforcing inequality of lists?
Trouble modelling a burglar puzzle in Prolog
what is a good way to link exclusive statements in prolog?
Looping through a list which is a subarray
How can I unify this list instead of just adding more variables to it?
How to determine sum of two numbers from a list
How to convert this clause into prolog?
How to install clpq library in swi-prolog
prolog code in python with pyswip not working
Eclipse CLP labeling: exclude permutations
Layouting Prolog terms
Bug in Expected Functional Rule in Prolog
CLP: Efficient model of 'not three same values'
Format minimal path
How to recursively determine quotient in prolog with limited predicates?
How to write rules to list all city when asked in query?
Apply OR constraint over the variables in a list
Retrieve data from database without printing
How to unify two ground term in prolog
Implementation of a hash table in SWI-Prolog
How can use data file with Eclipse-clp program
Creating a list of interleaved elements: Prolog
Prolog multiple unifications to one variable
How to implement these Sigma notations in ECLIPSE-CLP or Prolog
Is there a way to sum only the integers in a list of pairs that contain a letter and an integer in Prolog?
Writing Circle Area in ECLiPSe-CLP has Error
why this code cannot be run?what is "syntax error: postfix/infix operator expected" error in ECLiPSe-clp
Possible bug with nth1 predicate in Eclipse-clp?
What value should be written to run the code correctly?
Is the given prolog term a binary tree
How to implement This MP problem in ECLIPSE CLP or Prolog?
Prolog- How to sum only part of list inside another list?
how to pass argument to fact and find remaining argument in it
instantiation fault in indomain
Finding whether a number is a multiple of another
How to confirm that the patient has neither cold or flu
Problem trying to define exists precisely one in Prolog
Finding a desired solution without using call_nth/2 multiple times or the use of findall/3?
Is the graph a tree in prolog
Re-assert a clause after it got retracted in a failing rule
Is there a way to combine tabling with clause?
Grouping elements of 4 different lists
undefined procedure on ECLiPSe 7.0 Prolog
Integer range suspension in prolog
Using tail recursion to duplicate items on a list
How can I show the max number
Constraint over the integer division
How to compare two list without inbuilt predicate?
Instantiation issue when solving this Prolog Caliban problem
Prolog: Looping through elements of list A and comparing to members of list B
Generating change given a cash amount and a list of currency
How to add a 'Functor' object from prolog to a JSON in python
Matrix Multiplication Prolog
Why member/2 does not return immediately
How to call a predicate from another predicate - Prolog
Merging elements of tuples in a list in Prolog
Prolog: "chili" interpreter that expresses call stack and choice points
bidirectional and deterministic binary decrement
The difference between dollar sign ($) and number (or hash) sign (#) in Prolog
Encoding this logic sentence in Prolog: G ↔ ~Provable(x)
Space / time requirements for ISO-Prolog processor compliance
Problem with mathematical operation with findall/3 in a List (Prolog)
Collaborative ontology construction and Prolog
How to inline a goal with findall/3, (use just one predicate)?
Find the lower peaks of the list
How to use append/3 to recursively build a list in prolog?
Can't stop Prolog nodes creation by caching / memorizing
Prolog tells me a procedure is undefined when it appears to be defined
SWI Prolog CLP(FD) scheduling
Problem in performing translation of list of numbers to words such as [1,2,3] to [one,two,three]
How to add rules in Jason while running
How to evaluate a variable with string value?
Crypto-arithmetic puzzle solver using CLPFD Library
How to accept one of two configurations of predicate arguments
Prolog Implementation of foldl1
Prolog CLP(FD) Number of items in result
Why doesn't prolog stop on cut?
I am having problems getting a list of lists into a single list
Prolog planning using retract and assert
I want to prove some theorem using Prolog, however, it always returns "Out of global stack"
How to find a root to leaf path which is equal to a sum(pathsum problem) in Prolog?
Prolog program to create a list with first duplicate elements
How to increase console font in XGP Prolog
Solutions for sum in Prolog
Proof as an output argument in Prolog meta interpreter
How to find specific values in database using arithmetic operators
How to find a specific fact in Prolog?
Prolog ways to compare variables
Turning a text file into a list using prolog. Using the split_string predicate
Probability of a disjunction on N dependent events in Prolog
Question about predicates in prolog with an example
Calling facts in query
Apply map and filter simultaneously in SWI prolog?
How can I write out an element from a list based on the index of an another element from an another list?
Extracting list of items between two values in a list - prolog
Prolog maximum term size
Prolog concise foreach
Grounding head and body
Goal expansion for an `if_/3` operator in Prolog
How to trim right whitespaces from String in prolog?
How to access rule data in PROLOG
Prolog: List of sublists
How to represent situation calculus in Prolog?
How to represent semnet in SWI-Prolog
Deconstructing with vars in clause heads (Prolog)
How to use read_line_to_codes & atom_codes iteratively to generate array of lines as strings of my .txt file?
How to describe commutative rules in prolog?
How to run a predicate that contains lists as argument using GNU Prolog for Java?
Can't load library(readutil) module in GNU prolog?
Type checking with Prolog
A problem of judge if a number contains '0' in Prolog
Prolog Infinite loop on circular facts
Prolog Maze Runner
How to ignore the first and last element on each line when reading from a text file in Prolog?
How to change board values from A to B
Select/3 to remove a random character from string fails
Call different predicate if variable is not instantiated
turn Predicate; How do you append a sublist of reversed elements to a list?
Permutation of a list where numbers must change its position in Prolog
Splitting a list of integers into list of sublist in prolog
How to obtain a list given this database
Write a predicate for reverse list
Equal Parameters without Comparison Operators
Dealing with Unbound variables & lists
Write a skip predicate
Having a List as an element in the list Prolog
Prolog Code outputs False instead of Variable value
Printing first letter of an atom Prolog
How do I create a "deep" version of this prolog predicate that will affect sublists?
Prolog predicate single node in tree
Creating a predicate that will write solutions to queries when called [closed]
Why does my prolog predicate only work with an even number of elements in its list?
Prolog determinant of matrix (recursion)
Debugging a piece of codes in prolog
Trying to add siblings to every node in a binary tree with one child so that all nodes have 2 or zero children. In other words no nodes have 1 child
to read file and then to convert it to lists in prolog
How to convert string list with number list each other in Prolog?
Prolog unable to writeln elements with carriage return
Adding a parsing constraint to a DCG
Prolog the cheapest path
Is there a Prolog name for moving a functor name in to an argument?
What does it mean for a predicate in Prolog to be "shallow" or "deep"?
How do I use Prolog to solve Transportation Problem?
Updating variables in matrix in prolog
Built-In predicate for checking for variable name in a list
Prolog - How to over write facts in a semantic network?
Why do i get a stack limit exceeded error when defining a predicate that convert the relation of two atoms?
Write a predicate to divide a list of numbers into multiple lists
hoofers club in prolog
Write a predicate sqrt_list(NumberList, ResultList) to the list of pairs consisting of a number and its square root
Pruning symmetrical solutions in prolog
. or operator expected after expression in GNU Prolog
Prolog (arguments not instantiated)
how do I implement a transpose predicate the right way (Prolog)?
How to fill a list with N elements from 1 to N accepting repetition in Prolog?
Prolog question, manipulate list of lists
SWI-prolog : how to make a circular list by using some facts
SWI-Prolog: How to stop the predicate when the list is empty? (predicate included)
Prolog Partial Matching
how to sort the final result in swi-prolog?(predicate included)
Prog Language lab
up,down,left and right cannot be used when using SWI-Prolog in terminal
Write a Prolog program to solve this problem [closed]
Prolog Dynamic Predicates Basic Usage
Remove duplicate from a list but not returning two same results in SWI-Prolog?
is prolog a good language to solve sudoku or minesweeper-like puzzle
Prolog Procedure Does not Exist
Use prolog to show cause of boolean logic failure
Binary tree in Prolog and leaves
Hide Module/Package from Trace
Why won't "repeat" in GNU prolog work as expected?
Splitting a list of integers into two sublists with the same sum, Prolog
Prolog Recursion Exercise Stack Limit Reached
Problem with simple recursion task in Prolog
How to access two dimensional array in prolog and how to loop each element in it
swi prolog 8.0.2 : gziped http
Prolog Max 2 of the same numbers in a list
How to assert many facts into knowledge base at once?
A Prolog rule that returns the subgoals in a proof search
How to generate a list of available steps on a grid?
How to Add an Element to the Same List Every Loop, Prolog
Prolog - Predicate doesn't find all solutions when using no input variables
family tree /3 prolog
Using foreach, Add Each Element to List Instead of Writing, Prolog
How to return a list of recommendations in Prolog?
Prolog: identify if two functors are identical *without* variable binding
Append User List to Database Atoms
how to set set_prolog_flag(stack_limit, 2_147_483_648). to double the limit using swipl prolog
I want to implement the predicate noDupl/2 in Prolog & have trouble with singleton variables
Why is Prolog unifying a free variable to another free?
Define the predicate maxlist( List, Max) so that Max is the greatest number in the list of numbers List
Uniqueness of a number in a list in prolog
Keep String property after inseriting to a list
Prolog: Finding 2 times of a list numbers and putting the number and its double in a list
How to remove all occurrences?
Shifting a list N times using Prolog [] issue :- Exercise 3.6 “ Prolog Programming for Artificial Intelligence” by Ivan Btrako
Using https with library(pillow) in SICStus Prolog
Finding the Palindrome of a List using Prolog :- Exercise 3.5 " Prolog Programming for Artificial Intelligence" by Ivan Btrako
I am trying to write a prolog program for fibbonaci series.This code is going in infinite loop .Can someone tell what's the error?
Prolog List Represented Graph Traversal
Wrong number of arguments in flow pattern
Prolog - building list of terms recursively only including certain terms
Why am I getting existence error when trying to remove doubles from a list?
Translation to DCG Semicontext not working - follow on
Prolog doesn't terminate after goal reordering
Translation to DCG Semicontext not working
Counting elements in list ignoring adjacent duplicates
How can I tell what the computational complexity of a clpfd program is?
Counting the number of elements in a list ignoring adjacent duplicates
How to instantiate a variable in prolog predicate
How can I tell what the computational complexity of a clpfd program is?
Counting the number of elements in a list ignoring adjacent duplicates
How to instantiate a variable in prolog predicate
Non-destructive universal quantification in Prolog
Finding prime factors in Prolog